38 The Devil You Don’t Know Irabeth, Regil, Inheritor (Iomade), Sarcophigi, Sartoush, Serenrae, Mendev, Nabassu, Nolkeria, 

Other crusader becomes a ghoul. Irabeth is distraught.

Irabeth- “You came.”

Regil- “What a pathetic sight. This is a commander of a knightly order? We should get her down.”

Oziel gets Irabeth down and Ged kills the ghoul.

Irabeth- “This boy, I can’t. I’ve also been bitten. Praise the Inheritor she protects me from infection or else I would have been like him.”

Regil- “It’s not your fault you failed to protect your soldiers. As tempting asis foolish your false lies and your failure to spend their lives wisely. Next time, make sure you kill them before further damage is done.” …. “I think I could get there, yes. I’m a little bit exhausted, but yes, I can get there. I will warn you, Commanders. Staunton Vayhne, the fallen paladin is here. The demoness, it’s a trap. Please, be careful. As you go into the courtyard. I’ll make my way back to Irabeth. You said at the foot of the mountain?” …. “Thank you.”

Lots of doors around us.

Kitchen/torture place/creamatorium

Area with several beds and 4 sarcophici in the corner. Some cool stone. Look like they are from the area, but they don’t belong here. Map of the World Wound is on the table. Nerrosian, Kennabres, and small villages circled. Knife moved along the exact path of our army. Oziel takes it.

Sartoushis on Sarcophigi; Knowledge History- about 100 years old
	Knowledge Nobility- Noble family, symbols they were kings, queens, bishops, or archbishops related to Mendev. 
	Perception Check- Begging from inside them; something glinted under the beds in the southwest corner.

Chest with symbol of Iomade on it. We free some crusaders from in the sarcohphagi. Chest has lots of money in it. (+2 Warhammer of Obstancy that does other cool stuff), battle knight’s pennant (gives bonuses to skills) flag, Brusier’s (+2 chainshirt plus DR to overcome piercing), gems, and a harp with symbol that is the same as Sybil’s sextant. Holy Symbol of Serenrae.

Crusaders- “Commanders, I thought we were done for sure. That creature, he kept us in here to ahhhhhh.” …. “The Nabbasu. He eats people. It seems to power him in some way. Yet the the seers, some type, food stuff. What do you want us to do commander? I’m so sorry, I thought for sure I was going to be eaten. Pickled alive.” …. “As you wish, thank you commander.”

We find Nolkeria chained up, across the wall and there is a silence spell in this room. Malort gets her down. Something seems like Nolkeria’s mythic energy has been suppressed. We tell Nolkeria to meet the others.

Nolkeria- “Oh, that was awful. That thing. I can’t believe it’s as powerful as it was. Suppressed my mythic abilities. Also, I think he captured Wilcer and Highlor to the north. Also, I think there’s something else in that room. It kinda freaks me out.” …. “That Nabassu, the bat thing, has an ability that can completely remove it (mythic power)!” …. “Do you need me to stay here or should I rejoin the others?” …. “I seem to have my normal shaman stuff, but yeah. I feel completely cut off from my mythic power. You should really be careful before approaching him.” …. “The only thing I know is their holding Highlore and Wilcer to the north. I think the fact that there is daylight coming in from the west, that’s the courtyard where the Nabassu is.” …. “I’ll be honest. I don’t know if I’ll ever get these back.” …. “I don’t know. Clearly, I am needed elsewhere, but I also want to help you. I can look through Brian’s spell list and see if there is something I can cast on each of you. These are pretty shitty spells.” She casts remove fear on everyone. …. “Good luck, try not to let your mythic power get taken!”

Another room with caskets…. We see Venture Captain Highlore and Wilcer Garms. Sybil feels something in her pack stirring (the wand is vibrating). A door fades in the stonework.

Zacharious- “You’re so close, please. I just need you to bring me this wand and finally, we can escape together.” Sybil doesn’t think the wand is lying to her….

Highlore?- “Commanders, you came for us. They came for us from behind. I’m so sorry. We were asleep and useless.” ….”All I can tell you is when they come in here and sometimes they come in with fresh recruits. They bathe them in dirt and sometimes they force them into these caskets where they sometimes emerge as ghouls. It’s not pretty, commanders.” …. “They play for keeps, there’s nothing about this that is humane. All I can tell you is prepare for the worst.” …. “I don’t know (if there’s anyone in the caskets right now). We’ve been to passed out to really pay attention.” ….  “Should we go through that door there or should we go to the south?”





37 Slaughterhouse VII Mountain Giants, Ghoul Stalker, Ghoul Creeper, Regil, Yaniel, Lauriel, Targona, Jacker, Ghoul Huntsmaster, Irabeth

4 angelic statues in this room, but most of them are broken and cracked. Creature in boneplate armor and giant shield. It summons something in a round.

Knowledge Checks Religion- Mountain Giants
	Clerics (or divine casters) of Kubriri- demon lord in charge of ghouls; weakest save is reflex; DR- none; Spell Resistance- none; Special Abilities- Ghoul’s paralysis (bite or claw), ghoul fever in jaws; possess channel resistance.
	Ghoul Stalker- Strong rogue turned into a ghoul; special abilities- Ghoul’s paralysis (bite or claw), ghoul fever in jaws; possess channel resistance.
	Ghoul Creepers- monks get infected with ghoul fever- special attack- possess sneak attack

We end up winning. Yay! We got a Flail of False Hope (+2 mythril flail that can restore hp to user; alignment restriction) shield of retribution (+2 shield and force damage); other random stuff; magic fang greater. We level up!

Regil- “Sometimes it pays to be selfish.” …. “I have no need, it’s not a gnome hooked hammer.”

We see a desecrated altar. Ruff Ruff sniffs it. He and Radiance glow (gets +1 for restoring order to shrine of Iomade). Ruff Ruff grows double his size. Ruff Ruff is now large.

Regil- “Cowardice, treachery, this is what happens when an army lacks discipline. None of them should have. They should have all fought to the death.” …. “Unfortunately, some of them fought you to their death. Not the other way around.”

Talking about level up (now level 7). Brett says he doesn’t think teleportation is as useful in this campaign as others. Sarah asks, “How else are we getting back to Chilly Creek.” The answer we now know is a BOAT. A BOAT Ged, a BOAT.

4 angel statues are: Yaniel, Lauriel, Targona, and the last one is indistinguishable. We hear talking from behind the doors to the east.

We hear behind the door.

?- “You don’t need this half. Ghouls don’t have any. It would fall out anyway. Yours is good though, nice and long. We’ll make thread out of it. Hair makes good thread. Maybe we’ll use it for sewing something to you. To bad paladins can’t become like us. (Something else.)”

Lots of nasty torture chamber looking stuff in the room.

Jacker- “I’ve seen this before, but there was like a hearth and an anvil. No, no, I can’t remember.” …. “Don’t make me think about it. Just go kill them, please.”

Fight begins! (Ghoul huntmaster)

Ghoul huntmaster- “The living like to swing those swords, when you’re one of us you’ll forget about those weapons. Better kill the enemy with your hands.”

Regil and Oziel kill the suffering crusaders.

Irabeth- “You can hold on, just a little bit longer. The Commanders will come.”

Crusader transforming into a ghoul and a dying Irabeth.




36 Ghouls NIght Out Abyssal Corruption, Anevia Tirabade, Nurrah, Horgus, Lost Chapel, Iomade, Drezen, Master Wizard, Necromancer, Zacharious, World Wound, First Crusade, Regil, Sosiel, Irabeth, Wilcer Garms, Venture Captain Hihlore, gargoyle, Hellknight, Sosiel, Regil, demon lord Kubriri, patron of ghouls, Nolkeria, Jager, Sosiel’s brother, gargoyle, Sheylyn, huntsmaster ghoul, Queen, Slaughterhouse, Arlez Gestander, Iomade

Darkness creeps in with a failed religion roll (abyssal corruption).

Those who survived the attack: Anevia, Nurrah, Horgus, and a few officers.

Anevia- “What’s that fortress this scum was talking about. Where is it?”

Nurrah- “Here, the Lost Chapel. Our scouts reported there was some trouble brewing there awhile ago but I didn’t think it was that bad.”

Lost Chapel- mentioned a number of times that it was a chapel of Iomade at some point just outside of Drezen. Site of some horrific experiences for those in later crusades after Drezen was lost. One of those was perhaps the result of the Master Wizard and Necromancer, Zacharious, level 20 wizard who was instrumental in taking the World Wound by storm in the First Crusade perished there in some way. The wand seems to say he’s trapped in the Lost Chapel, himself.

Regil, Sosiel, Irabeth, and more seem to be missing from the war council. Wilcer Garms and Venture Captain Highlore are also missing.

Anevia- “The only thing I could really get out of her was there seemed there was some type of madness in her head from being surrounded by the swarm. She could do absolutely nothing against the massive amounts of hoards. She was expecting Iomade to protect her in some way and she was thinking she had failed Iomade in some way. That’s why she didn’t answer the call to protect her. She’s just being to hard on herself as usual.” …. “It’s very possible, I mean I was there when the gargoyles tried to mark her earlier when we tried to rescue the Hellknights. We were able to prevent it then; but maybe something alerted them to our presence here and they came back to finish the job.”

Anevia- “From my estimations, about fifty soldiers, both recruits and veterans get carried off. And of course we saw Irabeth get carried off at all. I don’t really know where Sosiel and Regil went.”

Nurrah- “Actually, one of the aides told me they saw Regil running from the camp but no monsters chasing him. I don’t want to badmouth anyone, but I think he left on his own free will. I’m very sorry to hear that.” .… “I don’t think they said, they just said he was running.” …. “It seemed like during the battle, but I didn’t see it myself. I was to busy defending myself from those horrible creatures.” …. “Just a standard alchemist fire, it was probably already weakened from the ballista or someone else from the army.” …. “Alchemist fires? No, I used them all.” …. “I just had a couple.” …. “You know, just in case something would happen. When I heard we may be going on a crusade, I thought I should be prepared for anything.” …. “Hard to tell.”

Anevia- “If we had to take the entire army, that could take days. If it’s just a small group of us, we may be able to scale the mountain if you’ve got some type of spell that allows you to fly or teleport it will make it even faster. Otherwise, I have some climbing gear I could get all of us up. It would just be a very arduous journey for those of you who aren’t used to climbing. Or we can take the risk and go the long way around, but we have no idea what demon army may be lying in wait up there. And it doesn’t look warm at all. I see the snow tops on that cliffside. I’m afraid we’re in for a pretty rough night.”

We discuss how we’re pretty short on resources and we have some broken gear. We also still don’t know who the traitor is.

Nurrah- “There’s still that one thing that those creatures talked about. They mentioned Kubriri. Do you know anything about Kubriri? I can grab one of my books and figure it out, maybe that could give us something?”

Knowledge Planes/Religion- We know he is a demon lord and patron of ghouls. First mortal to eat human flesh and after his atrocity he died in absolute agony and was reborn in the Abyss, becoming the first ghoul.

Nurrah- “I can think that must mean that if Kabriri was the patron of the demon that came to us, maybe that another demon lord has joined the alliance and is sending troops here! That sounds awful, but I guess that also means, well I guess it will take time for our troops to circum to the ghoul fever. Maybe we have enough time to rest?”

Horgus- “Maybe if we had some better way to protect the camp. Particularly from air attacks, we only have one ballista. What about a magic shield we should start investing in. I should start looking into this.”

Knowledge Nature- Gargoyles didn’t have any diseases. Only like to ghouls and the gargoyle attack is the Nabbasu demon mentioned Kabriri. Nolkeneth also made a comment about eating Irabeth.

Anevia- “While we stand around here, our friends are being eaten alive. First, let me scout ahead. I just don’t want to sit around here.” …. “It’s a good question, they came after the fires started. I had no idea anything was in the sky. I would have looked up, we would have had scouts, but the whole sky was covered in smoke.” …. The fire started in the camp?.... “It does seem that way, yes. The fire first and then the gargoyle attack.”

We realized Nolkeria isn’t there so she abandoned the camp or was taken away.
Most of the fires seem like they were chemical in nature. Oziel confirms these are all from alchemist fire.
Anevia has gone to the foot of the mountain.

We decide to ant haul and spider climb up the mountain.

We hear terrible screams.

Anevia- “There, it looks like that’s where they took them. The monsters. It looks like the monsters are having a feast. Got some survivors, got some up ahead. Don’t know how they escaped. They’ll never make it away from these gargoyles if we don’t help. I’ll tell you what, I’ll wait here. If you can save them from the monsters, send them here. I’ll tend to the wounded and get them to safety.” (she has a wand of cure light wounds.)

We buff up.

We see a group of Hellknights with Yager leading the charge with dead ghouls around them.

Jager- “You call yourselves crusaders? Fight to the death!” …. “This time these winged beasts won’t escape us. We’re ready and we’ll chop them to bits.” …. “As you, commander. We’ve tried to take down a few of these as we move up. It’s not been an easy task. These ghouls are savage.” …. ‘Well, there’s not much I can say from here. There are many up ahead. I believe Sir Regil is out there somewhere. He managed to help a few of the recruits escape. He’s already making a decent fighting squad out of them. They didn’t get a chance to take us prisoners so I am afraid I can’t be much help of what’s going on inside the chapel. But we can escape their claws over by the slope and take the weapons from the fallen. Low and behold, Regil’s squad of Hellknights continue to hold the line.” …. “Left, gods no, Regil does not do that. He chased after the beasts, trying to make sure he could find them. He told us to hold the line and wait for reinforcements. He said he knew you would come and he was right. Where are the rest of us gathering.” …. “Very well, we will hold here and make sure any ghoul that does come through at least has to get through us.”

We go through and see Sosiel and another fighting a ghoul. 

Sosiel- “Quickly, get down. That won’t hold them for long. Take the wounded away, I’ll hold them.” The girl dies and then uses the glaive to kill it. “Wake up, wake up, please wake up.” …. “No, please, not her. I’m glad to see you commanders, but this woman and I, we were brought here together by these terrifying gargoyles. I hate to admit it, but we were caught off guard when the gargoyles grabbed me and dragged me off. The recruits must be terrified; but she did well though. As soon as the monsters were about to land, she twisted out of their claws and helped us all escape.” He picks up and looks at her shield. “I prayed my eyes deceived me in the darkness, but now I know there is no doubt.” …. “Well, Oziel, this shield is my brother’s shield. It was kept as a relic in our church for centuries. We used to gaze upon it as children imaging the adventures of its previous owners. When Treavor entered the crusade, he took his shield with him. Who are you? Where did you get it from? In the name of Sheylyn, I wish we could talk while you were still alive. I want to know where my brother is. The whole reason that I’m here.” …. “I hope that will be the case. I imagine that many will need healing. I will pull myself together and go provide support. Good luck Commander, to arms.” He grabs the shield and drags it down the path.

Knowledge Religion- They were fighting a ghoul huntsmaster. More advanced ghouls than most. These were rangers in a previous life and retain much of those abilities. Many ghoul huntsmasters keep corpses of animals as their animal companions. As a ghoul, they bite and can give you ghoul fever. Both their bite and claws have a separate venom in them which can cause someone to become completely immobile. They have channel resistance so they will resist any kind of positive energy (get +4 to their saves).

We hear someone cry for help among mutilated and lifeless bodies. She looks like her teeth are showing through her cheek. She is nodding to the ghouls. The few ghouls around her are playing dead and she’s playing dead with them.

Girl- “Thanks the gods. Thank Iomade. It’s good to see you commanders. I’m glad you understood what I was saying. Just up ahead that gnome. He’s helped us out. Please, go and rescue him.”

We keep going forward.

Regil- “Stop whining. Raise your weapons and ready your defenses. You’re wounded, hold up your torches. Does the Queen send us soldiers? Yes, no, I believe you all look more like a sewing circle.”

Fight begins against some ghouls. We eventually win.

Regil- “Commander! Ready to report on the situation. We organized an escape. There are no fewer than three dozen ghouls and gargoyles in the fortress. We lack sufficient for a confrontation to move through. I will always preserve the lives of our allied forces. If you thought in terms of efficiency as every fighter should in this situation against the demons, you’d be far less surprised at my actions.” …. “Gargoyles are used to dealing with the weak and poorly trained. Civilians near enough. During our first battle with them, we weren’t at our best. But while they grew confident in their victory, I studied their habits. They become vulnerable when preparing to land. It’s a simple matter to free yourself from their claws. The rest is the question of skill. Many of our troops have not learned it yet. And of course commander. This is not my unit, but I would not abandon it. Another thing. Do you recall the fire at the camps? Gargoyles do not have fiery weapons. The flames are what clearly guided them to us. I don’t know what Commander Tirabade and her celebrated watch are getting paid for. It’s clear as day that there is a spy in our camp.” …. “Indeed. I would probably throw a court marshal and begin destroying everyone's rations. Perhaps even beating them until one of them brings forth information. But I will leave that to you. What would you have me do?” …. Sybil wants him to join us because she loves him…. “Consider it done, commander. I am happy you have done the more tactical choice of bringing me with you. I will warn you, up ahead is a slaughterhouse. Even I almost threw up. That demon, you see. Killing and eating his victims isn’t enough for him. He’s inventive. You, knight, go and join the wounded. It seems you’ve got a couple of licks on you. But I don’t see the ghoul fever is taken. See that you are protecting with the rest of them.”

We see a crusader stuck in a pile of rusty blades and broken armor and bones falling from the top of the hill.
Man- “It hurts, I’m bleeding.” He has bones popping out of his body (from the wrong spots.)

A message on the large fortress/wall says, “Welcome to the Slaughterhouse.”

We ask Regil about intel.

Regil- “A little bit of intelligence. To the north, there seems to be an outside courtyard that leads to a stable. This large building in front of us seems to be their chapel headquarters. I’ve heard the more lucid screams coming out of it. I’ve rescued who I can from that ruined stable. I don’t imagine there’s anything left in there except some supplies. At least, whatevers left of them. It does seem our main assault will be to go through this large building in front of us. One other note. I do think there are some horrifying screams from the courtyard far above and I do believe that is likely where the creature is to be held.”

Dozens of statues are on the roof above us. Not all of them look the same. Four of them decide to attack us.

Cue gargoyle fight. We get a surprise round! We end up winning. Regil kill steals. Whateve.

Small courtyard. Two buildings separated by alleyway. One has smashed stained glass windows. We do some healing. Inside the building we see a now completely destroyed chapel. Blood and gross stuff in here. We also see a ghoul (Arlez Gestander) standing before 3 chained up crusaders.

Arlez- “Heretics, dirty slaves of false gods.”

Unholy symbol of Kurbriri is drawn here. 

Arlez- “Renounce your idols and bow to him who gnaws or you shall be sacrificed upon his altar.” He stares at crusaders.

Crusader 1- “No, I’ll never. Holy Iomade, hear me now. I will gladly die before I renounce you.”

This is where we realize we can interrupt cutscenes……

We see some paladin like ghouls behind him.











35 It’s a Clue! Burn it Down Lost Chapel (Zacharious), Leper’s Smile, Drezen, Wilcer Garms, Nurrah, Vescavour Queen, World Wound, Baphomet, cultists, fourth crusade, Kennabres, Wardstone, Nocticula, Midnight Isles, succubi/succubus, Lord of the assassins, Deskari, Master of Seduction, shadow assassins, old demon lord Nahindry, Alushionara, flesh markets, Horgus Gwerm, Wilcer Garms, Quartermaster, Villerath Ford, Chilly Creek, Captain Hilor, Spinner of Nightmares, Irabeth, Anevia, gargoyle, Nulkineth/Nabassu, demon lord Kabriri


Wand/Zacharious says, “No, no, Sybil, you have to keep me out. How else are you going to find me in the Lost Chapel?” …. “Crusader, you must utilize my power.” …. “If you have to ask, you need to find me so I can properly train you. The true ways of necromancy. To many crusaders have used it incorrectly. I can right that wrong as I did so long ago.” …. “Until then, I will remain dormant, but know that I am here.”

Malort finds a note. “Come to my camp if you want to talk. I have much to share with you. A friend.” Map marked just north of Leper’s Smile.

We go back to the army, overall the army is doing well. Irabeth is holding it together, but clearly in a daze (she’s gone through something traumatic) but Anevia is helping her. Troops realize that this is only one of the things on the way and they’ve heard that Drezen is worse. They realize the Commanders minimized the losses and have some hope.

Wilcer Garms smiles at us then it disappears. We summon people to the command tent.
Malort tells everyone that Nurrah gave him the scarf.

Anevia helps Irabeth to the tent; Sosiel is painting a nice fresco of Leper’s Smile. We go get Nurrah while Oziel casts Zone of Truth.

Nurrah- “Hey Commander! How are you? Good to see what you did against those crazy vescavours, huh?” …. “You’re always such an awesome person.” …. “Of course, you know I love to talk about all this stuff. Is it the crusades, the history of the crusades, you know I’m an open book. Just ask away.” …. “Do you mean Lord Tresbit?” …. “Well, Lord Tresbit, he preformed such many brave feats but you know, in his battle with the demons, my lord realized he was doomed. His final act was to cover my retreat so I could tell the world of his great deeds. Some people say what he did wasn’t heroic, he was just an arrogant moron, puffing himself up one last time. I say curse their tongues. As far as slave owners go, my master was nice to me. Well, sort of, as nice as you could be to a slave; but he’s a deceased lord so I can kind of talk about it now. I’ve tried.” …. “In the World Wound, just a little bit north of here. We had sort of circumnavigated around Leper’s Smile. Going far to the west. It didn’t really help us in the long run, the demons were waiting for us. It seems that there was some type of Baphomet cult infiltrating our ranks. Basically made us all die from within. Basically, slaughtered us in our sleep. Only a few of us were able to escape. That’s when I believed if someone like a god must have been watching over me.” …. “How did I escape? Well, some of it was a little bit of luck, I suppose. It was pretty dangerous. There were a number of soldiers of Iomade that were around and well I guess I looked small and unopposing and I guess the demons didn’t care about me, but, I guess I just slipped away when they attacked the camp. Most of the camp was on fire, it just seems pretty awful. But it seems like I was just able to escape.” …. “I’m pretty small. Most of us halflings know how to hide pretty well. You have to imagine that after so long of being a slave I was just happy to keep out of site until I made it back to civilization. It was about that time that the Queen found me and took me in. She was pretty impressive. She always has been.”

Everyone makes a will save. Ruff Ruff failed and Oziel failed…. As we get close Nurrah realizes what we’re doing. 

Nurrah- “Whoa, Commander, do you realize someone cast Zone of Truth on your tent?” …. “Yeah, there’s an emenation there. There’s the Zone of Truth. I guess we’re all going to be pretty honest with each other so hopefully you haven’t done anything crazy.” …. “Well, yeah, but sometimes we don’t like to talk about our bowel movements. I had one the other day that was about the size of a giant stick. I can’t believe it came out of my little halfling body; but that’s the Zone of Truth.” …. “You look like absolute shit. What happened to you?” …. “Oh yeah, I’ve heard of the vescavour queen. She’s pretty impressive in her own way.” Nurrah had a normal amount of pheromone on her, the scarf had extra.

Nurrah- “That’s a good question, commander. I got it from one of Horgus’s shipments after Sosiel told me it would be coming. That’s when I dug into the history because I thought I would be nice to Malort. I mean, I guess I thought it smelled a little weird, but I thought it was just from years of storage. I didn’t realize it was linked to those infernal insects. I’m a historian, not a demonologist.” …. “Well it sounds like I had a little bit to do with it if I was giving the scarf to Malort, but no, I didn’t do anything to it.” …. “Me personally, I guess if I’m really thinking back, I was there when that shipment arrived. Probably handed a couple of swords and equipment to various crusaders.” …. “Is there anything else I can help you with? This sounds like really serious business.” …. “The swarm was summoned? It seems like something only a demon would do.” …. “Me? I thought I could prove myself to you. Afterall, I’m just a historian and an ex slave. I thought that, ‘Hey, this could be the moment you take me seriously.’ I just wanted to make you proud, Malort.” …. “I appreciate that, but things are different now unless you plan to take me as a slave. I can do things of my own free will.” …. “Of course, the demons had no intention of quietly sitting behind the World Wound. It kept attacking Kennabres, trying to reach the stone to destroy it. Just befoul it. The crusaders drove the demons away again, again, and again. The fourth crusade would last for about fifteen years. The demons would attack, we would push back, the crusaders would go on the offensive as I said. We were forced to retreat, our losses were really tremendous. Really, our only achievement was we didn’t let the Wardstones fail so every time we would fight over this tiny sliver of land and it would just be a stalemate. You can imagine how that effects morale. That’s really all I can tell you. There were a bunch of cultists in our camp so every time we would get close or retaking a certain part, they would know and we would just get fought back time and time again.” …. “Oh, definitely. I think that was the biggest thing when Baphomet joined the war in the second crusade. The biggest thing that changed. Until then, we were able to fight off most of the demons. Baphomet is a pretty crafty one.” …. “No, they look like you or they look like me or they look like anyone around here. No one knows what dramas or biases people are hiding behind their masks.” …. “Sometimes your mask is just a mask and sometimes it’s holding something pretty sinister. Impossible for us to know until they struck.” We ask Nurrah to keep this to herself and ask her to keep an eye out for bad stuff.

Nurrah- “Of course, it will be like my own secret inquisition.” …. “Who hasn’t heard of Nocticula? You guys haven’t heard of Noticula. She is the demon queen of the succubi. Lord of the assassins, she took down the old demon lord Nahindry. Now she rules the Midnight Isles. I can only imagine the horrifying power that she wields. Even Baphomet and Deskari leave her alone. Granted she never really entered this war so for some reason she’s staying out of it. You’d think the demon lord would want to join up, but no, not her, she’s always scheming something. Master of Seduction that one. Good thing she’s not in the camp. She could probably be right in front of your face and lie to your face and nothing would register. She’s that good.” …. “I mean, even Baphomet doesn’t like Noticula. You gotta be careful. She’s got assassins everywhere. She loves shadow demons. Those are the worst, you think you’re sleeping nice and peaceful in your tent and then BAM dead.” …. “But you don’t need to worry about that. Demon lords never, well shouldn’t never make it to the material plane. Only Baphomet and Deskari really have taken that. Most of the gods are really mad at them for that. At least Noticula, stays in Alushionara, her greatest city in the Midnight Isles. Granted, if you’re one of her followers and you die then you would go to straight to the flesh markets and who knows what goes on down there. I can only imagine graft your demonic things all over yourself. Want an extra arm? Get it there. Want the next arm for a hand job down there? That’s definitely the case. Gotta just watch out for them.” …. “I’ve honestly don’t know, I’ve never had to clean something with vescavour phermones on it though, a bit of suggestions though.” ….  I’ll see what I can do, granted I don’t think there’s much I can do, but that’s why I brought a mountain of books. Am I free to go commanders? I’m sure you’ll find the person responsible for any malicious intent they’ve got. I hope it was worth it for them. Otherwise, they’ll have to deal with you.”

The more evidence we gather, the bluff DC goes down.
The mages help clean the phermones of the camp.

Regil- “Crusaders, present arms. Anyone who is not presenting their armor in the next five minutes will be flogged. Anyone who persists will be flogged again. Now,” …. “I understand and we have a job to do. Now, you’ve laid your terms out very well. Everyone must comply.” …. “Do you want compliance, Commander Sybil? Then you must do what must be done.” …. “Very well, everyone has five minutes and twenty seconds to get there things cleaned. Hellknights, present arms. Mages, please, begin the cleansing.”

We decide Horgus is the next person to talk to.
Large amount of pheromone in Irabeth’s and Anevia’s tent. Don’t know if it’s because they spent more time with the vescavours than anyone. Anyone who survived is a hotspot. Ruff Ruff eventually finds a vile south of camp in one of the large trenches and it contains a large concentration of these phermones. Vile seems like it’s been recent (like since the time we got to camp.)

Horgus and Wilcer are arguing.
Horgus- “What do you mean we’re out of alchemist fires? They’re one of the things I have you stock continuously. These supply lines are getting worse by the minutes.” …. “Seems suspicious, but I will dip inside.” …. “I really compel you not to do such a thing. What if somebody were to come in and ask a question about our history for example.” …. “You must understand, I am a man who doesn’t take chances. Cast your spell and I will certainly resist.” …. “To think I have to prove myself again and again to you lot. Cast your spell and get on with it.”

Oziel and Malort both fail.

Horgus- “You can ask me your questions, but your parlor tricks will have no effect on me. I am Horgus Gwerm.” That backfired…..

Horgus- “I assure you Oziel, I do not. Why would I go through the trouble of losing precious resources? Getting soldiers killed after I just supplied them? Helping you in this situation in Kennabres only to kill you out in the open? It just seems like a lot of work for very little gain. Anevia watches me like a hawk. If I were to step out of line she would know immediately. Perhaps she knows more about your little accusations; but leave me out of this. I am ashamed to hear these words coming out of your mouth.” …. “That would be the Quarter Master, Wilsor Garms. He was the man I was talking to right before you arrived. You’ve spoken to him on many occasions.” …. “Supposedly the quartermaster said he’s completely out of alchemist fires. There are only a few things I asked him to keep a near infinite supply of and that was one of them. You neve know when it could be useful. Apparently, the minute we come up against swarms, all of them seem to disappear. It will take weeks for me to restock.” …. “Wilsor has been part of the Queen’s army for many years. Me personally, I only started working with him on this trip. Frankly, based on his performance, I’m not sure I would work with him again. But if the Queen has recommended him to this army then I need to follow her highness’s orders.” …. “Oh, for heavens’ sake, I have no idea. It seems like an awful bunch of malarky. The Queen’s own Quartermaster, in charge of the specific slaughter of individuals. I suppose if you were seen as a threat, it would be a very ingenious way to take you out. The Queen just appointed you as head of the army. It seems like an odd thing to do. No, no, I don’t dispose the man himself is in cahoots with these demons; but I suppose if you were in that position it would be easy to miss arm the troops.” ….”Am I free to go now?” …. “Very well, I’ll go back to trying to aquire supplies for this, let’s just say almost ill gotten crusade. We’re only half way through and almost half of our army has been eaten.” …. “I passed my save, I say what I want!”

Sarah shows how her real life lack of knowledge of how smells/scents work.

Ruff Ruff doesn’t smell anything additional on Wilsor.
Regil- “If you want something done, you send the right tool for the job. Best remember that commander.”

Sybil found a something….

Wilcer Gharms seems like he has a lot of troubles on his mind today. 
Wilcer- “What a march commander, what a march. I won’t forget it in a million years. Can’t stop shaking when I think about Leper’s Smile and how you were able to overcome it. You’re a far better man than me.” …. “Truly was a miracle, Ged, Commander. We lost so few soldiers. Realize, if you made the wrong decision, half the army would be a snack for these things. Scared, scared things are only going to get worse from here. What do you think we should we do? Lie in wake, start a bonfire, raise our glasses in honor of the fallen? Maybe that would do the troops a world of good.” …. “Not so much a disagreement. The Gwerms are a fantastic group. Clearly, the top of their industry. I must admit, I’m not entirely sure how I seemed to have misplaced an entire crate of alchemist fire. It’s incredibly unbecoming of a quarter master such as myself. I feel completely ashamed.” …. “Ultimately, just me, unless someone can pick locks. I have the only key to our system. As it is supposed to be that way.” …. “We absolutely had the alchemist fire here not three days ago. It seemed to just like disappear randomly. I couldn’t find them yesterday. Just before we moved up to Leper’s Smile. But I still have the key!” …. “I mean, these are very sturdy locks. I suppose a skilled wizard with the right spells or a master thief could have opened it; but I have not come across any of those. We don’t tend to employ any wizards in the army and certainly not any rogues.” …. “It seems pretty unlikely unless they were here when the shipment arrived and I could have been distracted; but after many years, I’ve taught myself not to do that.” …. “No, ultimately no. I have the individual troops or whoever comes from the merchant caravans carry them in, but I maintain the lists and I maintain the inventory. It is my responsibility as Quartermaster. Everyone else does the fighting so I do the inventory management.” …. “No one is more embarrassed than I am, commander. I assure you, it is not something I’ve done before, nor do I intend to repeat. But if you must demote me or reduce my daily allowance, I would take such a penalty, I wouldn’t say happily, but it would be well deserved.” …. “Absolutely, sir, I will do better.”

He shows us his books. We get alchemist fires 3 days ago at Villerath Ford. We were going to Chilly Creek at that time so we were quite a bit away from camp. It disappeared yesterday at the ruins (but the whole army was with us.)

We believe Wilcer Gharms is being as open with us as possible.

Wilcer- “It’s what we’re talking about, I’m just so embarrassed at losing the shipment. This is the fifth crusade and it seems I’ve already messed something up. That’s all. I will straighten myself out. I just don’t like to look bad in front of you commanders.”

Captain Hilor at this time is shouting about the Spinner of Nightmares. Sybil hears soft crying as we approach Irabeth’s and Anevia’s tent. We think it’s Irabeth.

Irabeth- “Commanders, of course. My apologies I did not attend any of the investigations. I’m just gathering my thoughts. What can we help you with?” …. “No such, things. Don’t worry about me, commander. Those vescavours may have gotten into my brain a little bit. It’s nothing a paladin can’t handle. It just seems like we are up against some pretty sizeable odds. Normally, Iomade would protect me a little bit better, but clearly I needed to work on my own a little bit. Work out your own salvation they say and I’m doing just that. Don’t worry, I’ll be tip top by the time we get to the next battle.”

Anevia- “Hey commanders, just you know, having a moment together as a couple, trying to understand what happened back there. Any luck finding the source of the smell?”

We tell them about the vile in the trenches and the missing alchemist fires. 

Anevia- “Skilled hand or some type of magic user no doubt.” …. “Fair enough, I didn’t mean to be so flippant, Sybil, you are absolutely correct. I’m trying to think back. I do remember the scouts picking up with the caravan. When we discussed  where it came from with the 5000 gold and the message from Horgus. You did think it was a little bit suspicious, hard to know if it was actually one of Horgus’s men or someone trying to look like Horgus’s men.” …. “I think most of those caravaners are making their way back to Kennabres, they didn’t stick around very long. Supplied the camp with a few things and left, it was all while you were on your route to Chilly Creek.” …. “Not that I’m aware of, but I’m sure Wilcer Garms took pretty meticulous notes on everything. He’s pretty good at that sort of thing.” …. “Are you thinking someone is trying to set up Horgus?”

Irabeth- “I can vouch for him commanders, he’s always been very meticulous. If he were to misplaced something, that would be rather out of character for him. It seems more like deliberate sabotage if you ask me. But who would want to do that to us other than a cultist themselves. Perhaps, someone trying to discredit you. Perhaps someone wants you dead or out of the way. Someone who wants your position, perhaps.”

Anevia- ‘Well, I can certainly start sniffing some things out. It seems like this just keeps getting odder and odder every time we go further into the World Wound. The dangers both from within and without are continuing to get worse. It seems like even my perception is unable to pick up on everything. Rest assured, I will continue to keep watch.”

Irabeth- “Course not, I am a paladin, I appreciate your concern, commander. But it’s just one of the many things the life of a soldier, we must endure.” …. “I’ll have to get that embroidered on a towel, eh Anevia?”

Anevia- “Don’t give her a big head that makes her think she’s a normal person. I don’t know what I would do if anything happened to her commander. Thankfully, she’s as tough as they come.”

Irabeth- “Gifts? Just practical things here and there.” …. “Well, she was cold. What was I supposed to do? Leave her out there? Someone who knows how to hide her entire life. No, no, it was about time she came out of hiding into the light to get a little warmth, even if it was from me. You certainly can understand that, Malort? You spent most of your time cowering in a gutter somewhere until someone gave you a chance. Glad they did. Same with Anevia.” …. “Of course, of course. Perhaps we won’t unravel the mystery today.”

In the middle of the night you wake up to the sounds of battle. Anevia bolts into our tents.

Anevia- “Commanders, you’re alright. Praise Desna! We’re in trouble. The camp is under an attack.” …. “It’s a complete mess out there. There camp is on fire. Winged beasts from the sky are attacking, trying to snatch our people away. We need to mount a defense and quickly.”

We see exactly what Anevia says. The only light is the burning tents. Random battle sounds as people fight back. Large stone creature with giant wings, horns, tails, and claws (gargoyles) are attacking. Gargoyles carrying away figures as they fly away. 

Cue gargoyle fight.

Perception check says we don’t see Wilcer anywhere. Nurrah throws alchemist fires at the gargoyles.

Anevia- “Irabeth, we’re here! We’re coming.”

Irabeth- “I won’t give up! In the name of Iomade, I won’t give up.”

Demon- “Young, healthy, strong, tasty. What a fine ghoul it will make.” We feel a strange connection to the connection. “Oh, hello again. This is yes, I remember you from under Kennabres. Did you find any more of your lovely little, Mongrael friends? I’m sure we can find this juicy paladin for someone else to eat. You’re supposed to be my equal? That’s what she’s talking about. Finish your toys.”

This is a Nabbasu, but not a normal Nabbasu. We remember it from underneath Kennabres in the labyrinth. 

Nabbasu Demon/Nulkineth- “Are you threatening me, mortal? I’m the stuff of nightmares. Roll on the ground and shutter. I come and I call you meals. I’m Nulkineth, the favored child of the great Kabriri. My name will be your undoing and the end of your life draws near I’m not even going to ask your name. I don’t even need to ask your twos (Oziel and Sybil) names. You’re all food and toys; however, I think this is enough for me. If you find yourselves a fancy commander or some type of honorable troop, let’s see how far you can get.” He begins to fly away.

Nabbasu/Nulkineth (to Sybil and Oziel)- “You know nothing, you think you’re that brave, but you’re just stupid. You got your powers by accident, you can’t understand anything. Now, just watch as you try to act all brave for me.”

It flies up the mountain. Anevia is pissed.

Anevia- “Commander, convene an urgent war council.”







34 Ballad of Betty Wight Vescavour Queen, Vescavour, Anevia, Irabeth, Eagle Watch, cultist, Kennabres, Noticula, Deskari, Baphomet, Midnight Isles, Carin Wights, Zacharious/Master Zacharious, Lost Chapel

Ged brought mostly dead (and blind) halfling to the fight. Vescavour queen let’s out one last cry. (Vescavour is the size of a large locust.) Some of them eat the queen, and some fly out. 
Odd scent comes out.
Anevia- “Just a brainless bug. So many of our people, even Irabeth, died because of this. Just yesterday I was sitting around the fire with some of these men that fell from the canyon above.” Anevia stops and looks over the canyon, looks at the slimy substance. “Bet my life some of your gear has this nasty stench on it when we were entering the canyon. I saw the Queen spraying it around to summon her spawn to her.” She looks at our gear. “I just know I smelled something.She goes to Malort and pulls the handkerchief off his neck. It is soaked in something. “Look, smell it. This is the same scent that is all around us. The swarm went directly to you, Malort. The entire time. I thought it was just chasing after you because you were first. But look.” …. Points to dead bodies and they have the sweet goop as well….. “Commanders, I think someone planted this on Malort just to know the vescavours would find you.” …. “How long have you had it?” …. “We’ll need to figure out what to do with her (the Queen) I’m more concerned about anyway.” …. “No body likes upstarts. A few of Irabeth’s allies pissed behind her back when she was appointed the head of the Eagle Watch. (Anevia spits on the ground.) You’re absolutely right, Oziel. We should keep our eyes open. The handkerchief could have been put here by magic, but I mean take it from a professional paranoia. I think we do have a rat in our camp, absolutely. Kennabres we squashed cultists time and time again but they’re like maggots. Just in a dead hog. Some of them could have infaltrated our forces and who knows. We probably should get back to our people sometime soon. I’d like to check in on Irabeth. I say we destroy this queen’s body.”

Halfling (Hezhancho)- “Just the flesh, just the flesh mark. It’s, I’ll take anything. Just give me Noticula. I, I don’t wanna go there. No. No, I’ll give up my left arm. I don’t need that. Just what about a sandwich? I could really use. No, no. You please can’t take me there.” (Bables on about something.)

Noticula- we’ve heard her name and recognize her as a demon lord on par with Deskari and Baphomet.

Halfling (Hezhancho)- “Take me to the Midnight Isles. I will give myself to her there. Just don’t let me suffer the fate with the rest of these horny bastards.”

Halfling (Hezhancho)- “My name is Hezhancho and remember, she comes for you in your sleep. She comes for us all.” Gives Ged something and she collapses to the ground and dies.

Amulet of the Apothecary- +1 amulet that grants +4 moral save against poison.

Letter with map of Leper’s Smile into one of the caverns- “To anyone who can help us, my name is Harkel and I’m chief of the Nasty Waves gang. Recently we raided the Tower of Estrod in Kennabres and with Norgabr’s blessing we took quite a haul. We hid in a reliable place with a bad reputation somewhere where the law would never think of going. We were celebration us success with Quickrip. When Quickrip appeared choked two of our friends to death. Do you think it was bad because Quickrip had already been dead for four hours. The old man was a drunken and he was deep in mountain roads. Terrified, we chopped Quickrip to pieces. A few hours later, he came for us again and he brought with him the two he killed earlier. That’s when the real nightmare began. Something so bad the mind can’t take it. Corpses came back howling, screaming in pain and rage the way they killed….. Even now, we’re sitting in a cave keeping a wall of fire burning with oils sanctified priest of Iomade. It’s the only thing separating us from the mob of corpses that we once called friends. Praise Norgabyr we took an oil vessel with us from the Tower of Estrod. It won’t last another day if the (something) won’t kill us quicker. It looks like the nasty waves are done so here is our offer. If you can get to the dry river canon and get us out of here we’ll obviously return all the loot and show you all our hiding spots in air pockets, confess everything, and any punishment except for the gallows. We’ll even sign up to be crusaders. We’d rather die in the hands of the demons than suffer here by our friends. I know my comrads well and the man who planted this letter for you have long escaped to the south. Bet you here is the exact location of the waves make their final stand. If you would drop your mercy and save our souls. Honestly, the chosen chief of the Nasty Waves.

Knowledge Geography- They came from the canyon but led into Leper’s Smile. So they are holed up somewhere in Leper’s Smile.

Anevia thinks we need to burn the Vescavour Queen. “I’ve heard that the bugs who eat the flesh of the Queen can be reborn as the Queen herself and that’s the last thing we need.”

Fire burns away the slime and we can see a giant runic circle. It’s some type of summoning circle. Someone opened up an Abyssal Rift in this very area. Hard to say who and what power level, we can assume it was to summon the Queen/hoard.

Anevia is willing to go check on everyone (she doesn’t hear the sound of battle), she wants to check on Irabeth.

We see the remains of some of our troops, but not many. We do not see any paladin among the dead. We see Irabeth in the distance.

Irabeth- “Commanders, we did it. You did it. I am incredibly impressed. We did lose a few men. It looks like maybe about two dozen or so, but honestly, all things considered, that was miraculous. I feel like I’m not going to unhear the sounds of the men screaming or those insects. Those vile, demonic beasts any time soon. But I think we made it.” …. “Not at all, my lords, you made the right call. Once we realized the vescavours scattered and only went after certain people. I do think it was the right call. I can’t imagine if we all stayed in one place to jump from one of us or another so quickly; but I also didn’t expect you to take down the Queen in thirty seconds.” …. “Yes, it was the strangest thing. They did seem to focus in on one or two people at a time. Complete eviserating them and then moving on to the next.” …. “This one for example.” …. We notice on all the soldiers that died, they have green goop on them. We only saw this goop in the canyon. No common thread between everything.

We only lose 25 people in 30 seconds…. Joel tells us that’s good……

We tell Irabeth and and Anevia to be vigilant in the camp.

Irabeth- “It seems like there always is a rat when it comes to these cultists. Baphomet has gotten a lot more sophisticated since the first crusade. In fact, I feel like we failed the third crusade because Baphomet infiltrated all of us. I’m afraid I have no real way of knowing friend or foe until it’s to late. I will certainly keep an eye out and pray to Iomade to enlighten us. What shall I be looking out for? What has drawn us to the conclusion that there’s a traitor in our midst?” …. Oziel mentions the goop…. “Perhaps it would be good for us to walk around camp. I don’t know, it’s something you could smell or something?” …. 

Anevia- “Listen Beth, take this smell. I don’t remember it being here for that long. But it seems like at least the commander doesn’t remember when or who gave him this handkerchief that has this smell on it, but it was on this trip so someone in our army absolutely did it. It is possible they already escaped. Any one moment, whether it was crossing the river or rescuing the Hellknights or even coming to the cavern, it could have been anyone who slipped out. They could still be here.” …. Malort has seen Nurrah since coming back…. We tell them to wash out the goop when they get back to camp. Malort also tells Irabeth and Anevia to keep an eye on Nurrah.

Irabeth- “Are you sure, Commander? That doesn’t make any sense.” …. Malort sends Ruff Ruff with Anevia and Irabeth to investigate. Irabeth is normally high spirited (but something is still bugging her) along with some of the other troops. It’s a lot of mental trouble (PTSD); but it will fade over time.

We have an overwhelming presence of something watching us. There is a hole that goes to the middle of nowhere and a ton of spider webs. We see giant diverts speared into the ground (which is solid rock) by something massive.  (maybe 30 foot long spider and 6,000 lbs) We see a gargantuan spider torn apart.

Knowledge Arcana (or Planes)- We have no clue what it is but it somewhat matches a description of a construct that some demons use as their body guards.

We hear groaning upstairs and see pulsing from the room.  There is a bag with a glowing wand. Start Carin Wight fight.

Carin Wights- Jealous guardians of tombs or some unfortunate fools who stumbled into some necromantic ritual. They still retain most of their INT which is almost worse because they were forcibly forced into undeadness and they realizes themselves as slaves but they are slaves to guard whatever it is that they are. They have normal undead immunities and no additional DR. Special abilities: create spawn. Anyone slain by one of these comes back as a wight itself. Also, all of their slams (and weapon strikes) have energy drain. Resurrection/raise dead ability instantly destroys them.

We beat them down. Whole room glows with sickly green and the undead rise back up.

Sybil thinks this wand is the wand of Zacharious. To stop the effect we need to break or conceal the wand. Malort picks up the wand and does not open up his mind to it.

Sybil takes the wand and it feels like, “Closing around the throat of an enemy, you suddenly feel the darkness in your mind and in the wand begin to merge and seize your hand. Then there’s this moment of release like you found a friend almost. The darkness seems to recede. A spark flares in the darkness. A firefly gently held in the hand of a young mage it’s light barely diminishes the gloom but it’s enough to see the walls of a dungeon, long ago, far from here? It’s hard to tell. In your mind you can see other young wizard crusaders, each holding each of their own magic wands. All showing recent signs of battle. You hear a rattle from above followed by a furious demonic shriek. The mages rise, preparing for another fight. A tall figure rises before them. ‘Master Zacharious, you’re alive!’ The mage towering over his apprentices is pale. His clothes are covered in blood. His voice dull and dispassionate, ‘The newfound sanctuary is found. You have fulfilled your duties. Now leave. This my battles not yours. Today, I die and I leave you, my friends. Take my wand, deliver it to Kennabres. In the hour of greatest need, let a worth crusader return it to me. Do you know that my brothers will need me when I am twice your age. Even death will not stand in my way. Find me. Find me my young friends. To the bowels of the Lost Chapel.’”






33 Some Way, Shape, or Swarm Irabeth, Kennabres, Nurrah, Regil, Sosiel, Anevia, vescavour, Swarm traits, 

Irabeth- Paladin of Kennabres. Heart and soul of our Kennabres defense.
Nurrah- Ex slave trying to make a name for herself and prove herself to us.
Regil- Knows exactly what to do even if it’s on the eviler side; will certainly do it to prevent more death and destruction.
Sosiel- Knows healing might help us survive longer.

We decided to send in Irabeth but encourage her not to engage the swarm but lead them away as long as possible to buy us time to take care of the queen. Small mounted troop. We think she will be most compliant in not engaging the swarm.

Irabeth- “Of course, this is my duty as the superior officer. If you have told me it’s more important to scatter, to try and avoid the swarm as best as we possibly can, of course commanders, I will follow your instructions to the letter as Iomade wills.” …. Anevia makes a face, but they both know it’s the best choice.
She grabs a contingent of who will follow her the most as well, she won’t force her contingent to do it. She stays calm and hides her own “fear.” The soldiers who are there feel motivated that this is the right choice. We prepare themselves.

We give her a cloak of resistance.
Irabeth- “It has been an honor serving with you. This will of course aid me, I did not have any magical cloak before; just a full plate, heavy shield, and devotion to my god. I do appreciate and I still suspect I’ll come back, I promise I’ll come back as Iomade as my witness. I’ll hold them off, just long enough. The men here, we can do this. Just take down that queen. I’m sure we’ll be alright.” She buffs as well.

Anevia is coming with us more out of spite rather than extra support. We do all the buffs. Like all of them. We hear the remaining troops going with Irabeth. We find out that Irabeth gave Anevia a Cloak of Resistance +1 with Iomade’s symbol on it on their second date. Anevia- “Have you met Irabeth? She doesn't do anything half way.”

The vesavours sound super nasty and a blur arrive from the canyon, they’ve taken the bait. Irabeth shivers for a second as the cloud of them blocks the sun. Irabeth thinks, “Her people, does she have the rights to send them to their deaths. They’ve been trained to fight demons, but what could they do against a swarm of locusts, insects from another plane? She orders the group to scatter to perhaps save their lives.” Having lost comrades to the first attack, they retreat. One or two of them died. These things chew through armor and bone. They could scour a city from Golarian. These modest forces are no obstacles. These things only know destruction.

Irabeth and the troops and providing a good distraction. Anevia tells us the Queen is somewhere to the north. We know there is probably loot in here but if we don’t grab it right away the bugs will eat it before we’re gone. If we take time the people above die. It’s dark in the cavern because the swarm is literally blocking out the sun.

Malort gets to go first….. And Sarah struggles trying to figure out how far ahead of the party to run. These swarms have swarm traits: Immune to critical hits, flanking weapon damage, never staggered or reduced to a dying state, they can’t grapple and have no reach. They take 50% more damage from splash weapons and AOE spells, immune to single target spells, susceptible to gusts of wind.

Green slime with a sweet smell. Ged hears a gnome, halfling, or child calling up for help. Maybe it’s a caravaner who got stuck into a swarm. It’s a halfling with vescavours wriggling in his eye sockets. He has very flowery amulets around his neck.

Malort finds the Queen on the third round. The queen attacks and it feels like chaos incarnate. Oziel goes to heal the soldier, but closes his eyes, tells Anevia we need to know. Curses at Ged and runs the way Malort went. Ged flies the guy out of the hole and brings the guy with him. These things eat our armor. Rude. Anevia gets nauseated because she sucks. Malort hopes Irabeth’s sword survives. Ged comes and kill this thing in round 5.

Behind the queen, there is a large runic symbol pulsating and it looks like it goes into a cave deeper in.


32 Music of the Abyss Kyado, Temple of the Good Hunt, Drezen, speaking stone/stone of voice/voice of stone, Current Glenn, Leper’s Smile, World Wound, megalosaurus, Sarkorin/Sarkorins/Sarkoris, Markel, Melissa, hydra, Chilly Creek, Drezen, Arlis Gestander, vescavour,vescavour queen, Regil, Nolkeria, Kennabres, Next Door Theater Company, Rumbledumb and Horsefeather Twings, Lampkon, Anevia, Hallit, Nurrah, Sosiel, Lann

Rova 2 4713; Korvosa Crab Fest!

Kyado and daughter are there. Kyado is reading.
Kyado- “I was trying to figure out more about the Temple of the Good Hunt. I know it’s somewhere past Drezen. I think I might be able to pinpoint it now, but this book, this history of the lost Sarkorin empire seems to speak of a voice of stones or a stone of voice, it’s hard. I don’t really speak the language, but it does appear that there is some type of speaking stones that can probably get you closer to finding this temple, if that is indeed important to you. Aside from that, I’m afraid I don’t have much to tell you other than the closest speaking stone seems to be in a town called, let me look this up again, again, I don’t really understand the language, it’s very old but it looks like it’s Current Glenn. It should be just up the Sellen River but that would take you past Leper’s Smile. I don’t mean to impose upon any of you. I know you haven’t really gone into the World Would yet. Leper’s Smile from what I heard is guarded by terrible creatures. I’m not entirely sure that you would be able to make it past them without truly heroic gifts. It’s just something that you might keep in mind, that’s all.”

Many of the gifts of Ersatil go back to this Temple that Kyado would like to reclaim. Ged tells him about the megalosaurus. 

Kyado- “Kellids? Also, it sounds like a gift from Old Deadeye himself.” …. (Nurrah passed the check to realize they looked like Sarkorins).... “Not just displaced or killed, but in often a horrific fashions. But could you show me where? I have not seen a megalosaurus in the area. Clearly that is a gift from Old Deadeye.” …. We tell him where it was…. “More and more oddities in this area. From what you were telling me last night, it seems I have taken my presence here for granted. I can’t tell if this is the Will of Erastil or falling victim to some type of (insosal mences?) your town has fallen under.” …. “But at the same time, he is the protector of settlements and homelands. Perhaps, whatever this town has needed and seems to existed for some time; he has had a hand in it himself. I would agree that it doesn’t feel like him, but it feels enough like him.” …. “If you can crack that nut (people in the town with the children), please let me know. I’ve been trying now for two years and still have yet to get them to open up about this thing. I do see children occasionally. It seems like there are babies that are born or new comers to the village come and they have their children and sometimes they leave and sometimes the children just mysteriously vanish, oftentimes with the parents. It’s hard to say. All I know is they’re very tight lipped about it.” …. (any areas in town you must avoid?) …. “No, not at all. The villagers, despite being evasive about that particular topic are welcoming and even this is just one of the homes they’ve established that any passerby can use, including us. They seem to have genuinely taken their bounty and their relative wealth for such a small town and open it up to everyone.” …. (Do you feel safe?).... “Mostly, yes. I suppose there always is that hesitation, but that is always the case when you are somewhere new and somewhere slightly strange, isn’t it?” …. (How did you end up here?).... “I was called. I listened to Erastil and he led me here. He often tells his priests to go out into the wilderness, seeking those who have not yet accepted his passionate support. He does what he can regardless of what people believe him of course, but it is always good for the old ways to be observed.” …. (Talking about going up the river to see what’s up.).... “It is possible. Don’t you think you have other things to attend to in the crusade? You have time to do such things? I am more than happy to stay here and keep you abreast of anything I can find. I am clearly here to help you in any way that you need and if that means to go and investigate up the river, then I certainly wouldn’t mind doing so. I can send you a carrier pigeon later if I find something useful.” …. “Of course, Knight Commanders. Anything you request, I’m sure well if not me then the entire village would be happy to offer.” …. (Demons really don’t attack here?)....“I don’t think I realized it until you mentioned it last night, but I never once had to defend the town from any of the demonic forces.” …. “Perhaps they’re just small enough that they’re not on the demon’s radar. Kennabres to the South and Nerrosian to the farther south, maybe all the ire was just focused there.” …. “Then I shall redouble my prayers to Erastil to keep this place safe.”

We decided to go check out the town. The town looks normal and everyone going about their day. We say about a dozen visitors including Markel and Melissa. See a few corn husk dolls and a station for making ribbons: blue, green, and orange. No one seems out to get us. They are excited to see Knight Commanders of the Crusade. Ged sees 2 small children (babies). Melissa gave birth in the last 6 months. Sybil sees how cold the water is, surprising how many fish they can catch in the cold water, hydra seems to have come up the river. We decided to go up the river.

Markel- “Have a safe journey and a swift victory. If you ever need any kind of rest or hospitality, know that we, the town at Chilly Creek are here to support you. If you take back Drezen, let us know somehow. We’ll send some type of welcome gift. I’m sure the river will provide something of adequate celebration.”

Same spot where the megalosaurus/elk was there does seem to be an upright rock where the megalosaurus was. Doesn’t seem worked, but it is standing upright where the ones around it have fallen down. “Stone of voices.” It does seem like it was carved out of somewhere more mountainous and placed here.
Knowledge Religion- We don’t think it was deliberately put here for worship; was this what Kyado talking about? We don’t know.

Standing stones are supposed to be where places of power are.

7pm we get back to the army encampment. New people in camp (gnomes, humans, giant cyclops) and general unease in the camp.

We ask what the problem is.
Soldiers- “Well, there’s a couple of things, unfortunately it seems. It seems the scouts returned after getting some of the gold you asked them to get. They have said they spotted a couple of things. One, they see gargoyles every once in awhile flying around. Based on what the Hellknights have said, who knows, they might be searching for us. I think many of the people are afraid of standing still for to long. There’s a separate one, it seems like one of the old fighters, an ex paladin I believe named Arlis Gestander has been talking about hearing things in the middle of the night and a constant, incessant buzzing and it seems like he has riled some of the troops up to say they are all going to die. That they are worried about taking further steps into the World Wound.” …. “It’s been the last day or so it really hasn’t had a fever pitch until you left. Many people thought perhaps you had abandon them. I, of course, tried to reassure them that this was not the case, but nonetheless. Where the hellknights are concerned, we could just kill Arlis Gestander, it seems like the easiest way to get rid of the instigator.” …. “Well, suit yourself. Very well.”

Regil- “Yes, it does seem like you have a number of cowards in your group. I have mentioned if they were Hellknights, I would simply kill them and that would improve morale dramatically. However, I assume you are going to take a much softer approach. Oh, now that you’re here Commander, this arrived for you earlier today (gives five tailed lash to Oziel). Seems to be a good model, could of had more tails, of course, but I suppose five is a good start.” …. “Sometimes you just need twice as many. But I understand, I am a Peralictor and you are a recruit.”

Nolkeria- “Apparently you saved a whole bunch of people in Kennabres and now there is a theater troop here which is trying to boost morale which is such a great time considering people are really worried. It seems like whatever is going on at Leper’s Smile, they can already hear it. People are talking about a jabbering in their ears. Creatures that will devour them like they weren’t wearing armor at all. I think people are just worried. Perhaps they just need to hear a kind hearted voice or something that will make them laugh.” …. “Not really. In my head, no. But then again, I am always constantly humming to myself anyway. I did hear someone say they found a pamphlet and that got things going, but from what I can tell, one of the old ex paladins, you can kind of tell he’s a little shaken in his faith because he’s an ex paladin, but he might be part of it as well. Maybe if we could talk to him things might get a little bit better.”

It’s one of the fighters in Ged’s army. He’s just staying in his camp and when people come to him, he talks about it.
Arlis (Arlez Arelez Arliz)- “It’s not to late to turn around. This is how it ends.” …. “Knight Commander, Yes, I apologize. I don’t mean to make a ruckus, but as you can already see we’re getting dangerously close to Leper’s Smile and the gargoyles are circling. I’m afraid I’ve had to many experiences in the World Wound, previous campaigns to know exactly how this ends. I merely wished to let the troops know what they were getting themselves into. That’s all.” …. “How old are you, son (Ged)? I’m sorry, Commander?” …. “That’s exactly my point.” …. “This is doomed to fail. Iomade has sent us a child, no offense. You clearly have been taking some kind of wool over the eyes of all the other troops just to make them believe the gods have blessed you, but I know the truth. They stopped listening a long time ago.” …. “Very well commander, do you know what a vescavour does to a person?” …. “They look like a single insect. These things can nearly devour anything. The way that these Abyssal creatures work is their teeth cut through armor as if it were made of cotton. It eats through steel as if it were butter. It eats through flesh as if were wet paper. These things will not come as one. These will come by the thousands. They don’t leave very much left. If they do leave anything, it is but bone and sinew where your friends once stood. I know what I signed up for. I think this is personally a worthless mission, but frankly I don’t know if there’s anything we can do to prevent it. All I’m asking is that you look me in the eyes and tell me that you truly believe it’s worth subjecting your men which you have been entrusted with to a fate that is worse than death. If you can tell me that with a straight face then I will certainly stop speaking of this with the troops.”

Ged makes a diplomacy check with a +15 based on his arguments. He hits the DC 23 with a surge.

Arlis- “Yeah, I suppose even if I am going to die, I might as well do it in the most honorable way possible. I apologize Commander, and I apologize profusely for calling into question your aptitude. Maybe Iomade is still out there for us.” …. “I hope you’re right. Otherwise, I’ll come to your camp tomorrow with my mostly eviserated body.” …. “Alright boys, let’s go see what these artist’s who’ve come to town have to say.”

Nothing magical seems to be effecting the troops. This is the closest most people have been to the World Wound and it is a dangerous and weird place.

Things that could be causing the sounds: Nickname for Vescavours- Gibbering Swarm and it seems like they constantly yammer (music from the Abyss which just drives people crazy.)

Vescavours-tend to swarm. There are hundreds of toothy insects. There’ mouths are nothing but maws filled with sickly green teeth. They look a little like insects with a stinger. Immune to poison. They are swarms and have swarm traits. They are still demons and have resist 10 fire and electricity and have Spell Resistance. They can devour nearly anything. If they attack an item or a structure, they ignore it’s hardness unless it’s made of adamantium and can sit there and devour armor and weapons if you’re in the swarm. When within 15 feet of the swarm you make the checks (otherwise it’s just unnerving); 3 rounds in the swarm you will go permanently insane if you don’t save.

People started hearing the swarms last night when we entered the World Wound proper.

Crew from the Next Door Theater Company (the one we saved in Kennabres) back when we weren’t Commanders yet. They want to put on a play about our exploits. Master Camp is one of the members. They will keep morale up, mend clothes, and cook.
Options play Oziel: 2 gnomes Rumbledumb and Horsefeather Twings. Cyclops Lampkon

Irabeth- “I suspect you were discussing a little bit about the challenge that lies ahead. There is one more piece of information you need to know. Vescavours, while they do swarm, they are commanded by a Queen. I don’t know where the Queen will be, but it will be close by. If you take down the Queen it will essentially allow us to disperse the swarm. But we have to get close enough to it. I will send Anevia with you to scout. She can try to get as much information as possible.” …. “Well, we will need to get the army though. There is no doubt about that. If you try to approach with a small group such as yourself. Chance are the swarm will turn it’s attention on you. I think we need to get closer to formulate a plan. Perhaps we need a field council.” …. “Well, Commanders, is there anything else you want to do tonight or should we rest up for tomorrow?”

We get 5 finance points (war funds)

Morning we wake up and go on the move. We see Leper’s Smile. We also find some nameless ruins (seem to date back to the time of Sarkoris, one of the few things that hasn’t been changed). We decide to visit the ruins.

Carved out sections with old statues. Sayings are carved into the walls. Does anyone speak Hallit? It says. “The absence of an answer is an answer too.” “No name.” “My name.” We find a Cloak of Cleansing (+2 Cloak of Resistance that also gives +2 against compulsion and disease). Matt wins despite being immune to compulsion.

Getting closer to Leper’s Smile:

Anevia- “We’re in trouble. The road ahead is split by a canon. To get to Drezen, there’s probably no way but up and over the other side. The canyon swarming with the foul creatures, vescavors. Real pain in the neck. They won’t shy away from soldier’s weapons and they’ve already managed to gobble someone up. Maybe a caravan of refugees from Kennabres. No one has really ever reported vescavors so far from the center of the World Wound other than in this place so we really don’t know where they came from. They haven’t noticed us yet but that won’t be true for long. We can try and retreat quickly.” …. “I thought you might say that.” …. “Oh yeah, sorry, I forgot about that. She’s there. Somewhere in the midst of that whole thing. She’s a whore but I bet if we kill her, the whole swarm will scatter. But, there’s probably thousands of vescavours all the way around here. Probably get all the Commander’s opinions in one place. Let’s get that field council together.”

Nurrah, Sosiel, Irabeth, and Regil are gathered and we convene a field council. If the swarm notice us retreating and catches us out in the open, everyone dies. No one says the word “trap” but the feeling hangs in the air. A swarm just happens to be in the army’s path and someone just happened to arrange it for you. We have to separate the main swarm away from the caverns so we can get at the Queen.

Nurrah- “Possible, but the problem with that is that summon nature’s ally doesn’t last very long. We’d probably have to get close to the swarm just to get the actual animals in line.”

Regil- “What if we just sent a small squadron, maybe with an actual commander. We could probably try to lure them out long enough for a small strike squad to go in and find the Queen, wouldn’t risk the entire army, but it is pretty likely that whoever we do send will die.”

Sense motive- The only thing on the table is who is the bait. There are often words hidden behind their meanings.

Irabeth- “I’m the officer best suited for the mission.” (She can’t burden someone else with the responsibility.)- paladin, calm and focused. Would try and hold her ground unless she was told to scatter.

Nurrah- “Oziel, come on, just send me.” (I need to prove myself.)

Regil- “My people will last longer than anyone else. Even as the swarm tears through our armor and rips our flesh to the bones.” (His Hellknight superiority over the crusaders will not permit anyone to tower over them.)

Sosiel- “The ones who will distract the swarm will be the healer.” (Only one speaking plainly. He’ll try to heal through it.)

These are the only ones that are good options.

Regil has adamantine armor (but the other Hellknights are not).

Party struggle deciding who to send. We decide we want someone with hit and run tactics. “If only Lann were here….”
Everyone is to divert the swarm to give us the best chance to take out the Queen. We decide we need a week to think about it.



31 No Rill Answers Order of the Godclaw, Hellknight, Asmodeus, Villereth Ford, Rova, Chilly Creek, Moondance Meadow, Nurrah, Old Sarkoris, Old Green Faith, Greenfaith, Invictus, Linnorm, Kyado, Jernaugh, Kennabres, Erastil, Hydra, Markel/Markle, Melissa, Mother, Icy Rill, Sellen, Temple of the Good Hunt, Sarkoris, Old Sarkoris, megalosaurus, Kellid, 4606, Dream

Order of the Godclaw lore- Fight a devil; Hellknights ally themselves with devils as part of a contract. If Hellknight wins, the initiate is let into the order where they can call on the power of these devils. If the devil wins, that devil goes up a rank into a much better devil later on as the contractual agreement. That’s why they call on devils and not demons. One of the five in the Godclaw is Asmodeus. *Not all Hellknights are evil; but they are LAWFUL.

We are again at Villereth Ford. Rova 1, 4713. We try to decide what to do. 

We leave the army at VIllereth ford; send part of the army to get the merchant caravan. We decide to go to Chilly Creek and go through Moondance Meadow on the way.

We get party gold from the merchant caravan.

We decide to bring Nurrah along and talk about naming the horses.

We get to Moondance Meadow- Druids of Old Sarkrois, practitioners of the Old Green Faith used it to preform their sacred time rights; dancing in the silver moonlight and offering up prayers to mother nature. Their bones can still be found in the sickly soil of this desiccated meadow where for many decades, one could only find grunting, dying screams, and the crackling of torn flesh in the music and laughter. We come across a wandering bunch of Green Faith Practitioners who are willing to join us if we feed them. They want to reclaim Old Sarkoris. They have a vendetta against the demons. They are essentially clerics of the Greenfaith (25 human clerics to the army- Invictus ranks up!).

We keep heading to Chilly Creek going northeast. We spot an army (150 cultists). We find another army (elementals swarming a campsite). We find a fallen beast carcass to the southeast. We also find an underground hideout in the tundra.

We go to the carcass (unknown creature, 50 foot); 10 army rations. Creature, knowledge nature- (Nurrah doesn’t know what it is); once it was a water creature (even though we’re far from the water); Brett thinks it’s a linnorm.

It starts raining as we get close to Chilly Creek.

Chilly Creek- Sleepy little fishing village; light wooden walls (nothing defensive but it could keep wild animals out). Small tributaries snake their way through the tundra, large trees, and rocky cliffs. We hear dear, small animals, and wolves. We see 3 old dolls hanging from branches, grass and seaweed of the dolls is slowly rotting away. Another small doll with blue ribbon. Later faded blue ribbon just hanging in the tree. Another branch with a gray ribbon. They are scattered around the area.

Kyado (looking around the area and examining things carefully) and 9 year old daughter (Jernaugh).
Kyado- “Commanders, it’s so good to see you. It seems you’ve found time to visit our quiet backwater after all.”

Ged gives the daughter the corn husk doll. She looks at the tree, looks at the doll, and tentatively takes it. 

Jernaugh and Ged talk. 

Kyado- “There is no possible way you were in the area, but I appreciate it nonetheless. I must admit, it is nice to see a familiar face. We’re still getting used to living in this village. I’m still not entirely sure what I’m looking for.” (points up in trees.).... “You just startled me, that’s all. It’s my overactive imagination. The town that I grew up in is a little bit larger than this. It’s located near a trade route so there’s always lots of new faces and people bustling around. Here it’s different. It feels like the moment you step outside the village, you’re all alone. You can walk for miles in any direction with only the birds and animals for company. This is of course the way Erastil has taught us to live, truth be told it still makes me feel a little uncomfortable.”.... “Yes, people, should bring you in. I can certainly try and put in a good word for you. Granted, the people here are a bit pragmatic and they don’t really have time for my theologies. They hold that I’ve helped them survive and that’s good enough for them, you know? So, let’s go meet them. You’ll see how the locals live and maybe you’ll get some peace and quiet. Temporary respite from the hardships of war. After all, even just having a little bit of that taste in Kennabres was more than enough for me. Certainly, if I’ve experienced some nightmares that will haunt me forever; I can only imagine how it is for people like you, soldiers who have given their lives to this cause. We’ll make sure you have at least something like this little village to come home to at some point.” …. “Who knows, maybe one of these days these villages will accept me as one of their own. I’ll do my best to continue to earn their trust.” …. “I don’t think we’ve really ever seen any demons around here. Granted, I’ve only been here a few years. The villagers may know something I don’t, but I’ve never seen any demons around here.” …. “Some priests get over zealous with those sermons, but Old Deadeye tends to just appreciate the people who are simple and maybe I’ll teach them eventually it is Erastil himself that protects this village, or at least I hope it is. Anyway, if you’re ready, let’s head straight into the village. I think the townsfolk should be there or at least be willing to give us a meal.”

We keep seeing all the dolls and ribbons in trees. We hear shouting at we get to the town. Lots of yelling and clanking. We prepare for battle! It’s a hydra!

Hydra- Multiple angry snake like headed creatures, you have to slay either the body or cut off all it’s heads to kill. They have fast healing. Must apply fire/acid to actually kill it.

Nurrah is a level 7 bard.

6 villagers are easily fending off this hydra that’s in the tributary. Mostly wooden buildings, some fishing boats.

Ged kills it.
Villager comes out with a torch and completely douses it in flame. We recognize this hydra came into the river already mostly dead.

Everyone in town has same shade green eyes. Villager makes offhand comment about this hydra being the second one this month.

Kyado- “Hello Markel and Meliasa, you guys continue to amaze me every time. I need to introduce you to someone. These are the Commanders of the Crusade.”

Everyone seems kinda family. Markel-  “Sometimes important to talk to ordinary people leading ordinary lives. Welcome to Chilly Creek.”.... “Well, these types of things happen, wild creatures coming through. Ordinarily, our Mother, Icy Rill, takes care of her children and won’t let anyone hurt them. She fills our nets with fish and drives away these monsters.”

Another villager- “If she doesn’t drive them away, she’ll weaken them so we can kill them and harvest their hides.”

Knowledge Religion- Icy Rill (We know nothing)

Villager- “Icy Rill (river)? She is right here. Did you think she was part of the Sellen? No, no. You would have half a day’s rowing before you reached that river. It’s big to be sure and very important. The Sellen flows through at least a dozen countries. But what would the Sellen be if it wasn’t fed by thousands of little streams and creeks like our dear Icy Rill.”

Kyado- “The people of Chilly Creek hold this river in great reverence.” We can tell he’s a little concerned by this but trying to be matter of fact.

Markel- “How can we not be holding this river in great reverence? Our whole lives are built around this river from the wedding wreath we send down it’s stream to the funeral boat that floats along the waters when the time comes. Our Mother, Icy Rill, feeds us, gives us water. Protects us. The gods are far away, but our Icy Rill is right here so we treat her with respect.”.... “Our Mother provides for us. Certainly, that’s more meaningful than some of your gods.”

Everyone has green eyes and the river seems like every other river. Lots of fish in the crystal clear water. The giant hydra is the only weird thing.

Markel- “Just the occasional hydra, yes. The other creatures as well come. But the fish, everything we have is exceedingly healthy, exceedingly abundant. Icy Rill serves us and we serve it. We make sure the river is clean. The surrounding forests is clear from any blight. Truth be told, just the occasional hydra.”

The people seem strong and healthy, the hydra seems dead. It seemed like a healthy hydra, just weakened in some way. Ged asks about the dolls in the trees.

Markel (facing away from us when he was bright/happy)- “Not much to tell really. Old custom.”
Villager- “Just ritual.”
They don’t want to talk details about the dolls and the ribbons. They don’t have any ribbons on their person or clothes.

Mellisa seems to be in charge, she has a small amulet around her neck which seems to be made of glass (grass). All villagers are wearing muted tone clothes.

The villagers get grumpy as Sybil detects magic.

Villagers- “Oh, so you’re one of those people. It’s not enough to just take our word that the river is providing for us. That we have to be some of those backwater hicks that couldn’t possibly know anything.”

Melissa- “Faith, religions, deities, with all do respect, no one has the time out here for these types of things like that. People in cities have their sayings and their prayers and their sermons but we’re just out here doing what we can to survive. There is only one provider and protector for us, our Mother, Icy Rill.”

Oziel asks about the dolls (humbly).

Melissa- “It’s just an old custom.” …. “I mean, it’s not something you’d understand.”

Ged asks about the children going to bed. We only see Kyado’s daughter.

Melissa- “The River keeps us safe, she would never let such and abomination get near us.” …. “Near anyone.” … “They (the children)’re around.” …. “Yes, you are certainly welcome to take part in any of our facilities here. We have not a lot of space, but you’re welcome to use any of our shelters. We’ll provide you blankets, food. We have an overabundance thanks to what Icy Rill provides us.”

Kyado gives the look of “this is what life is like here, I don’t understand it.” We’re also in front of the entire village he’s trying to integrate into.

Villager-“What a wonderful dog, it seems like one of the wolves we befriended.” We did hear wildlife as we approached. We don’t see any animals (except the fish and dead hydra in town). We do hear the animals outside of the wall. Only thing we’ve ever heard of Chilly Creek is that nothing ever happens here.

Melissa? Villager?-“I don’t know what you’re looking for; but if you continue to distrust us, I suppose there’s nothing we can do about that. You are welcome to sleep anywhere else if you’d like. I promise you, we mean you no harm. The river doesn’t care about prayer or sacrifices. If Icy Rill wants something in exchange for her help, she just takes it without asking.”

Oziel detects magic and finds something in the hydra’s stomach. 

Villagers offer to help gut and skin the hydra (5 ranks of leatherworking can make a hydraskin cloak for no cost). We get a hydra skin and a glove. Oppressor’s Glove. 

Villager- “Sure, we go outside the village to hunt every once in awhile, but not often because Icy Rill provides everything we need.” …. (do demons come here) “No, as I mentioned, Icy Rill protects us. No abominations like that would ever get near us.” …. “Now, now, it’s not necessarily that nothing attacks us. After all weavels ate through most of our carrots yesterday. Gobbled them up, down to the last stalk. And Old Breg went to go fix his roof and took a hard fall.” …. (but the demons don’t attack).... “No, no, Icy Rill makes sure she protects us from the important things and if she wants something from us, she takes it.” …. (but how does it protect you).... “I don’t really know what you mean. We’re not an army. This isn’t some type of learned people around here. We just live together, solve our own problems, and serve the Icy Rill together.”

Sybil fills up a canteen.

Villager- “You know, we once had this idea to start trading many of our river goods with Kennabres and some of the surrounding towns; but it does seem like most of hte villages around here just don’t care about that type of thing.” …. “Yes, certainly. You come from one, and you come from one, and you come from one. People come from all sorts of places and sometimes they settle in places like Chilly Creek.” …. (when was this founded?).... “It’s hard to know. We’ve just stumbled upon it in my lifetime, but it was clearly here before. After all, even a wonderful cleric like Kyado here decided to come attend us. Who would have thought, now Commanders of the crusades have decided to pay us a visit.” …. “Icy Rill provides. You must be tired. Have some food, have some water from the river. Take a rest. If you would like to continue to commune with us or I’m sure Kyado would be more than happy to talk with you.”

Nurrah- “They’re kinda weird aren’t they. I don’t really know what’s going on. They don’t seem to have a leader. They don’t really have a religion themselves besides this weird obsession. To be fair I haven’t seen anything on maps about demon prevention river. I’ve never heard of that.

Kyado- “We moved here not that long ago and I must admit, she mostly communes with the nature around us. In fact, she was saying the other day. I don’t know if that’s true or not. That she saw a giant moose of some sort walking around.”

The water seems like normal water.

Kyado- “I wish I knew (about the dolls). They won’t talk about them with me. They won’t talk about them with anyone. I agree, I don’t know why I don’t see any kids.” … “I feel like there were (kids). I remember kids but then I forget or something.” …. “I just don’t recall, I don’t recall.” …. “I think I’ve been here a few years now, but it’s hard to remember. Afterall, I’ve been trying to convert these people into a religion. It’s hard to share their fervor for this river with anything but the river itself. That’s why I just feel like I’m trying to prove my worth to them, healing them when I have to. Only after do they start to trust you can you start sharing about your faith can you really start to share you beliefs, but that’s what I think.” …. “It’s been a week or so I think, maybe two.” …. “I did yes, I really came to Kennabres to trade because I don’t remember why.” …. “It’s worth a look I guess. I remember a few things that brought me to this village. There was a carving on the walls on the Temple of the Good Hunt. I don’t know if you’re familiar with it or not. Truth be told, I probably couldn’t get back there if I tried. It’s deep within the World Wound, but at a time in my life, I felt like I had nothing going for me. It wasn’t until my daughter came back to me that I finally found a new purpose in life.”

Knowledge History/Local/Religion Temple of the Good Hunt- Sounds like a Temple to Erastil. This was visited by the crusaders in the first crusade. Further in the World Wound past Drezen. Nurrah only knows what we said. Supposedly of great importance to Old Sarkoris, maybe one of the first temples erected in Sarkoris, maybe has connections to the Green Faith itself, but certainly Erastil based on the name. Great hero of the olden times is buried there. We haven’t been able to be in that area in a long time. 

Kyado- “My daughter stayed here in the village when I was over in Kennabres, otherwise we stay in one of the shacks on the edge of town.”

We let the town go to sleep so we can go look at the creepy dolls and ribbons. They are not magical. We feel like we see something massive with horns moving in the corner of our eye in the forest. We follow the thing we think is a moose.

We come to a clearing covered with moose in a circle all pointing to a giant megalosaurus in the center on an altar. It looks up and stares at Ged. Ged talks to the moose….. And it doesn’t respond…. We feel like we’re in a sacred space. Ged takes off his helm! He’s not an elk himself! (yet.) It seems like the elk bows to him. Big elk seems like it doesn’t engage with or totally ignore Ged. Ged prays to Erastil (GM?) to figure out what to do.

Erastil’s voice- “Sometimes reality is not reality and sometimes the absence of an answer is an answer too.” Ged forces reality. The elk and stuff are replaced by large humans that seem barbarian; these are Kellids (but the ones we know now look different) so these look like they are from a different time.

Meglasourus Kellid Man- “Find us, avenge us.” Then there is nothing there (elk or people)

Nurrah- “I think they were Sarkorins, you know, people of Old Sarkoris.”

Knowledge History- Nurrah- “The last time anyone saw any type of Kellid was 4606, that was like more than 100 years ago. Even so, those Kellids didn’t look like this.”

Ged apparently knows his dad…and this wasn’t him….. The person we saw didn’t have green eyes. We debate taking the dolls. It’s raining still (again?) Malort takes a doll out of the tree and gives it to Ged.

Joke about Ged giving away a boat again….. 

During the night, Malort has a dream- “Feels host to some anomalous force and being forced to see these strange visions. Space around you distorts and every sensory organ you have is flooded with false images, sounds, lights, smells. That reality itself is trying to expel you down some dark tunnel deep beneath the earth but the other end of this tunnel, a grim figure awaits. You feel yourself resist this crude attempt to wrench itself free from this weird dream/reality but this force you find yourself entangled in has grabbed ahold of your soul. Almost like one has reached into the demonic rage and destruction of your demonic tiefling heritage. This stranger grabs, and begins to pull you close, like a hunter reeling in a harpoon. You feel this dark and ominous force begin to well within your soul as this stranger begins to have this menacing growl. What do you do?”

Malort freaks out and tries to freak out. The moment passes and and the attraction fades and the thing fades as you wonder what the hell and wake up.



30 Order Up gargoyle, Irabeth, Regil, Jaeger, Jacker, Perelictor, Order of the Sunrise Sword, crusader, Kennabres, Drezen, Hellknight, Mendev, Order of the Godclaw, Paralictor, artificer, Iomade, Baphomet, Nurrah, Horgus, Yaniel, Sarkoris, Numeria, Mammoth Lords, Kellids, World Wound, Aeroden, 4606, Architect of the World Wound, Arelu Vorlesh, Deskari, Lord Axuler Tresbot (Tresbit), Desna, Cayden Calien, Asmodeus, third crusade, second crusade/third crusade, Pharasma, Saint Delicka De Martyrs, Verisia, Korvosa, Shoanti, Niehem, Magrave Devil, greater host devil, primitive altar (unknown holy symbol), Rova

Gargoyle fight continues. Irabeth has arcane mark or something like that. We win.

Regil- “We will wait for my remaining fighters to return. What you see here now is only a small part of my forces. As for my long term plans, that depends on the results of our conversations commanders.” …. “Before we move on to serious subjects, I’d like to address an organizational issue regarding my unit. You may wish to be present.”....

Jaeger is brought out and solutes. Asks for permission to report.
Jaeger- “During the gargoyle’s first attack, I determined it necessary to leave my post. I swam over the river, found the commander’s army, and asked them to provide assistance.”

Regil- “Reinforcements were much needed. You will earn double salary for your resourcefulness Jaeger, and then one hundred lashes for abandoning your post.”
Jaeger- “Yes, Perelictor.”
Regil- “Now, the more delicate issue. Commanders, you were interested in our dispute with the Knights of the Order of the Sunrise Sword, before the battle, yes? Thinking my actions were a little bit, what was the word you used? Atrocious? Their forces in Kennabres suffered great losses in the demon attack and now their leader has perished and his troops are in trouble. They are reeling with no command structure. Their order will hardly be able to continue with the losses they have suffered. These fighters aren’t the best material I’ve worked with, but I assume if a formal command could be put over them, I’d be able to reforge them to weapons with reasonable quality. One or two for them might even become true Hellknights. The rest will be put to good use as well. Does this make sense to you or are you to repurpose them to your needs?”... We decide we will use them rather than them being enslaved. “Now, now, I wouldn’t make such and offer if I thought they were garbage.”.... Random sunrise order chick complains Regil’s ideas goes against their order’s. The Order wants to join us…. “As you wish.”.... We don’t know if he’s disappointed or relieved…. “Well then commander, let’s proceed to the main question and then put an end to this exhausting conversation. We should discuss cooperation between your forces and my own. We do share a common enemy and a common battlefield.”.... We ask for Jaeger to join us and to borrow a contingent from him. We do a sense motive (which we suck at) and we think he’s being respectful…. “I do not believe I have made any attempts to conceal my feelings about you both as a new strong leader in the region and as a bearer of a highly unusual power. Of course, I would like to know what is inside your head. One could say that is my duty. Drezen is an ambitious goal, but it is most reasonable. Imagine how a victory would rally the severed bands of these crusaders under one banner. We certainly need a base of operations inside the World Wound. Very well, I stand to support you. Moreover, I can accompany you in your campaign. I would remind you that Hellknight’s are outside of Mendev’s jurisdiction. My unit and I will join your forces and obey your orders but only as long as deem that our goals coincide. As for Jaeger, he is still indebted to this troop. If he wishes to leave, well, there may still be consequences for that; but he is welcome to take that action.”

Oziel asks that when our interests no longer align, that we respectfully have a conversation before any actions are taken.

Regil- “I believe that is a reasonable assertion, commander.”

Oziel asks Regil not to murder any soldiers not under his command.

Regil- “Of course.” He doesn’t seem hurt or surprised by the request….. “If you wish, I could explain my position in some detail. All of the soldiers killed in my order belong to a unit, my unit and therefore the case was an internal matter. They were of the Godclaw. Now that we are part of you, I shall consider your opinion in my order’s actions. Some of us would say an opportunity for a military necessity to win out over Kum Bye Ah as many of your kind would seem to go for. That is if you prefer many of your people are taken as slaves instead of death and I will be sure to keep that in mind. Have we resolved the matter, Commander?” …. “Very well, in that case, we are ready to follow you commanders.”

We take everyone back up to our encampment.

Irabeth- “I don’t know what to tell you. I don’t feel anything different. If you have your magics, please, go for it; but as a paladin of Iomade I am immune to disease and may of these things. I don’t feel like something has happened.”.... Oziel says he inscribed an arcane mark on you (glyph of Baphomet’s symbol). We decide to try and dispel it and we realize it can’t be dispelled by dispel magic.

Nurrah can’t erase it.

Nurrah- “Oh, by the way commander, I forgot.” She comes back with a scarf of some sort. “I was trying to make up for the fact that I wasn’t very helpful to you earlier with all the stuff about Ya, your mom and I did have some of Horgus’s people buy this for me directly out of the coffers out of Kennabres. Supposedly this was one of Yaniel’s pieces that she wore into battle. I have no way of verifying it independently of course, but I did remember seeing it in one of the books that kinda described everything she did leave around Kennabres. Not only that, this was actually done after she supposedly died so I’m not saying she still is alive, but there is a chance. Anyway, I thought I should give it to you and thank you for everything you’ve done for us so far.”.... “It looks great on you. You look positively angelic.”

Oziel asks about Jacker’s past life.
Jacker- “That’s a great question, I haven’t really had to talk about myself in awhile, but I guess I’ll do it. I’m not much of a bragger myself, but yeah. I was part of the Order of the Godclaw in the first crusade. We made such a massive stride into the World Wound. We established forts, we conquered demons, it seemed like everything we did was taking us closer and closer to actually closing that gap. My unit itself was going after some vile demon artificer of some sort. I don’t entirely remember everything. I led a small contingent at the behest of my Paralictor. Down into this strange laboratory. Our goal was to break it apart and be sure that whatever this guy was making was never going to happen again; however, the last thing I remember was that my entire battalion was ambushed. I don’t even remember what it was. The next day I woke up after blacking out. I wasn’t in that place it was in some like underground cavern. Aside, from that I don’t really know what else happened. That’s a little bit about me. Then I found you. It might have been a few days after, might have been a few years. Probably a few years. Maybe a decade or two. Wait, what year is it again?”.... He lost 100 years of being a magical item. Oziel promises to avenge him if possible or end the blight on our world….. “Those are very kind words. I’m happy to hear you say it. If anything it makes me feel like I could be better, that I could be stronger. Maybe there is something about being around other people in our Order that makes me remember what it’s like to be a HellKnight. Maybe, have you ever considered joining the ranks? I feel you have what it takes.”.... “I get it, he (Regil) may seem a little intense, but to be fair, the Hellknights have survived some pretty awful things do to the fact that they’ve been so ordered. And truly, all you have to do now is ask Regil to summon your test. If you can take it out on one on one combat, you’re in. Everyone will see it. You’ll be a Hellknight.”..... “I’ll be here with you. He seems to notice me which is weird. Nobody else seems to notice me talking. Maybe that means something good or maybe not, who knows. Maybe he some evil mastermind and some artificer all the same; but it doesn’t seem that way. Poor guy seems, what’s the word? Dying?”.... “Anyway, it’s hard to judge a book by it’s cover. Particularly one that’s stern as that one. But he does seem to be interested in you and really everybody and it sounds like his main concerns were that we retake Drezen and put an end to the demons, so maybe you know, with allies like them, who needs enemies? But they certainly can help us against the demons. Anyway, talk to him at some point. I’m sure he could bring you some enlightenment. Working under a Peralictor as strong as Regil is an honor, really.” …. “Oh, don’t worry about me. I’m sure we’ll figure out what happened to all my friends and I’ll be back to fighting shape in no time.” (There are times he is close to understanding he is an item now but it seems like he is pushing against his own ego.)

We gained a Hellknight Battalion (stronger than any troops we have but not many of them). Regil also joins. Regil can be a secondary army on the map; or we can incorporate them into one of ours. Abilities- armor training, bonus to ability scores, bravery (extra morale saves), aura of law (immune to fear effects and automatically pass rout checks); fear (army attacks hellknights and if they fail morale checks they won’t attack them next round, if they attack again and fail that army is immediately routed); smite chaos (+2 attack and +1 defense against other army and if army has special defenses it bypasses that); +1 movement because they’re mounted.
Regil provides merciless boon (ruthless tactics +1 to keeping people contained)
Oziel wants to add them to his army.

Hellknight (Sarah has decided this is our first interaction with Toni/Tony) (on how they got to this side of the river)- “We came from the south; however, we were being pursued by a larger army. You can try and go back that way. They may have moved on into the further regions of the World Wound, but we did approach from the south on the other side of the river.” (We don’t know anything else about the crusades, but we can find things out about them.)

Nurrah- “I could talk about the World Wound and it’s geography for hours. Let’s see, Sarkoris, that was the area this place was or at least it used to be. It was an unforgiving country inhabited by numerous tribes and Kellid barbarians. Imagine, Numeria but without all the metal mountains or realm of the Mammoth Lords but with a much milder climate. That was Sarkoris. The country was ruled by priests of a forgotten deity and shaman. That said, back then even before the World Wound the boundary was especially thin in this region. Since ancient times, Deskari had his claws sunk deep into the minds of the locals around here. His cults thrived for many centuries. Areoden tried to stamp them out but in the end, of course, he passed away. See, this particular area, the year Areoden died in 4606, a little over a century ago, no one is really sure about the timing, if it was coincidental or if there was some connection to Areoden’s death, but I’ll tell you what we do know about the World Wound besides her name and we don’t really know much about her other than there was an Architect of the World Wound. We know her to be Arelu Vorlesh. By some unknown method, she managed to harness the terrible power of the demon lord Deskari together the two of them tore open the barrier between worlds opening a rift into the Abyss and the very middle of Sarkoris. The World Wound slowly but mercilessly expanded, devouring more and more land. In a matter of years, Sarkoris, that once great nation, was just a memory. The priests and shamans who used to rule Sarkoris hated magic and all who practiced it. Wizards and other sorcerers were driven from what remained of the land. Sometimes I think, what they did do to Arleu in that prison that kinda caused her to lash out and open the World Wound; to think that if she was ready to just give herself to the Abyss, that only demons might devour her torturers along with her; to imagine such hatred, it terrifies me.”.... We’re given a sense motive…. Something about being imprisoned is something personal to her that she’s trying not to break down and cry herself…. “I guess part of it has me thinking about my own past. I come from Iger, it’s a small piece of land that proudly calls itself a county but it hasn’t been independent a single day since the country existed. There’s a lot of national pride and it’s always borrowed. I was a slave back in Iger, a slave to Lord Axuler Tresbot. What a man he was, he towered over me like a rock over a garbage heap. He was a true hero. I think he could have even worked along side Yanniel. He bought me as a simple secretary, made me learn the history of the World Wound. All of it, one volume after another. He hired tutors for me. He even set me up to meet prominent historians. He didn’t want just a simple slave; just a slave with an impeccable education. Lord Tresbot was going on a crusade, the third crusade. He firmly believed that the servants of the good gods, they were to weak. Only a follower of Asmodeus could stand against the demon invasion. He took along a secretary, a historian and most importantly he entrusted me for recording his glorious story for future generations. Even still, I watched Lord Tresbot do many brave feats. With a clasp around my neck and a chain around my hand. When I saw him in the final battle he did with the demons, he realized he was doomed, his final act was to shove me in front of the demons to try and cover his own retreat. I suppose I should still sing more of the praises of his great deeds. The demons didn’t even think of me as a remote threat and they shredded him to pieces instead. I smelled like his visera for many, many months. I kept wondering that maybe that was heroic. That he knew something I didn’t about the demons. He was trying to show that I was weak and that I could be saved because of it. I don’t know. I can only imagine the depths of depravity that Arelu must have thought to join with those creatures. Even if she was a slave. My journey ended here in Mendev, I guess. That’s where I found freedom. I was here to publish Lord Tresbot’s biography. I didn’t want to boast, but who am I kidding, of course I do. The book sold great, the numbers were fantastic. It made me rather famous. That’s what brought me to the Queen’s attention. She invited me to her court. After all, she was curious about my deceased lord. She was in great need of an expert on the history of the World Wound. Hopefully you find me as useful as well. Anything else you want to know?”.... “I’m a halfling, we age pretty typically to what the tieflings do as well. I’m just in my late 20’s. A lots happened, I guess. I was very very young when the second (third?) crusade happened. That was about twenty years ago.” …. “Why is anybody a slave. I guess the correct answer is I pissed off the wrong deities or at least the followers of those deities. Many a times I would try to go around, I was young, I was starving. I didn’t really have much of a family to begin with. I would go to the temples to Desna or Cayden who teach goodness and freedom, but as soon as I got there the monks and their lovely smells of frankincense I would instead see the priests come out with sticks to beat me. So, I guess you could say that I continued to go after that to the point where the temple of Asmodeus, while they still did beat me, they took me in and said it was the rules that we had to be fed and be sold. So in some ways I do have to say lord Tresbot was right about Asmodeus being not that bad of a deity. At least he follows the rules. Anyway, even still now, I hate going near some of the good temples, I still kinda feel like there’s a slave driver’s stick coming toward my head every time I smell frankincense now.” …. “Hopefully, you treat me a little better than Lord Tresbot did.”.... “Well no, I’m to rich to be a slave now. Nonetheless, I feel like you could beat the shit out of me.”... Malort says he won’t shove her in front of any demons…. “Good to know, good to know.”... Malort asks her not to shove him in front of any either…. “Yeah, I don’t think I could if I tried. Well, if you want I could regale you with stories of each of the crusades. Does that sound fun? If not, we could always save it for another day. It’s up to you. I have nothing else I’m doing, it seems like you’re just playing with your dog there.” …. Are you going to write a book about us?.... “What do you think I’ve been doing this whole time? Waiting around for you guys to ask me questions? That would be ridiculous. No, no, no. I’ve been writing it all down.”.... She has been chronicling our calendar/movement plans. She is keeping track of our in game calendar…. “I’m already rich!”

In the morning, Ged finds some of his troops in front of a makeshift altar to Pharasma.
It’s just a little holiday today. You probably don’t know it. I wouldn’t blame you. All of us were from a city in Verisia. Maybe you’ve heard of it. It’s called Korvosa. Anyway, today is a holiday, a minor holiday in Verisia for the worshippers of Pharasma. It’s Saint Delicka De Martyrs day. She was one of those people who were able to read the Verisian harrow cards. Anyway, she eventually saw her own death in the great fire that ravished Korvosa; because of that, she knew she was going to die so she poured everything into trying to save most of the city from the fire and she really was able to save; get a lot of people out; saved a flotilla of ships; she saved a number of very impressive works of art; and she was even honored amongst the Shoanti warriors who would otherwise have taken advantage of Korvosa’s fire so we just kind of pay homage to her today. Thanks for taking an interest.”.... “Particularly if you have a hometown hero like that. I don’t know how much you venerate that type of thing in your faith; but I gotta say, it’s cool having someone we can look up to in our small little community.” …. “Even the big cities have their draws; granted if you come back to my place, you might be able to get laced with poison by spiders; jump into a river of sharks. It’s a real hoot.” …. “I’ll just hook you up with my buddy Niehem (Nigh-heem). He was the best at poisons. Some people could even say that he could use dusts and little herbs to completely disappear for hours on end. Not really sure what he was up to, but he seemed like a pretty cool guy.”

Oziel goes up to Regil and tells him Jacker has been instructing him and that he wants to take the test.

Regil- “Yes, of course I could administer this test for you. I have the ability to summon a creature that is to your ability at any moment. Know, that if you die, I will have no purpose for your body and I will ensure that it is dealt with in the way that the hellknights deal with most of our failures. You will be forgotten. Are you ready to take this particular task?”.... Oziel agrees. “Very well, it is good to know, in that case, please take a position on the other side of the arena.”.... “You will have approximately twelve seconds before the battle begins.”

Super cool fight happens between Oziel and the devil. Devil gate comes open with something with ranseur.

Magave Devil (or greater host devil)- twin pairs of mangy disease rittled vultures wings that are flapping. (Two sets of them.) Almost like raptor beams, two horns from it’s head. It exudes noxic fumes and hovers with impossible control. One of the hunters of souls from hell. It often travels with swarms of other lesser demons; otherwise it is big (5’ 6” tall); AC 23; max HP 59, currently at 43; Will Save +3)

Oziel wins.

Regil- “Welcome to the Order of the Godclaw, Hellknight. I am your Perelictor if you so choose to accept me. In this particular case, you are still the commander, but I promise to impart upon you the entirety of the knowledge of the Hellknights. Particularly that of the pentamic faith. Do not take this oath blindly or carelessly. You will be held accountable for your actions. Do you know the oath?”

Oziel and Regil recite the tennants together. I will eliminate chaos, whatever its form and wherever it exists, resting only when the world is right.
●	I will destroy those who root lawlessness in weak hearts and minds.
●	I will strive to be worthy of not one, but five.
●	I will seek the great principles behind life, the truths spoken through many voices.
●	I will be a paragon of order—an unassailable example that others might follow.
●	I will commit what I don’t know or can’t understand to the judgment of the five.
Regil takes out a 5 tail lash and hands it to Oziel- “The reckoning is upon you brother, welcome to the order.” He salutes and steps back and the Hellknights celebrate in their own weird way. He gets a Hellknight halfplate.

What’s our next major way we’re going to go? We send the army north toward the mercenaries and we decide to go to the primitive altar.

Primitive altar with offering to unknown deity. We really don’t know the symbol. We can get 5 army rations though. We also see a massive army of demons (1000) standing at a choke point, blocking going further in the World Wound. Don’t know what they’ve waiting for/ blocking going to Drezen from the south? Waiting to attack Kennabres?

We figure out consumption cost. Yay (it is 9 at this point if it matters.)

Sybil removes the ruin from Irabeth.

Wake up to first day of Rova, 3714



29 Gnomebody to Love Villereth Ford, Umestil, brimorack, third crusade, fourth crusade, babow, Baphomet, Serenrae, Sergeant Kaimilo Dann, Kennabres, Keeper’s Canyon, West Sellen River, Cambion, DretchHellknights, Regil Denegrade, Jacker, Jaeger, Order of the Sunrise Sword, Anevia, Irabeth, Knight Commander, gargoyle, halffiend, Solemn Hour

Arodus 30, 4713
Villereth Ford is the fortified demon outpost at this location. Umestil is 3’ tall Brimorack. He said the third and fourth crusade never made it past this point.

Babows come from those with murderous souls and have a murderous instinct to them.

Ged- “We will not drop our weapons. We will not stop. We will keep pushing into the World Wound until we send all you and your foul (hell?) back into the Abyss. You will be just one demon we will faintly recall banishing. You will leave no legacy upon this plane. We will survive you and supplant you. This is our home. Our community. Our family has come together once again and our connection to this land and our gods give us strength that you underestimate. Tell Baphomet I send him my regards.”

Umestil- “Foolish mortals, you have already stepped farther than you should have. You clearly have some metal. My master will hear of you. You have not seen the last of me.” (he teleports away; Ged took him down in his attack.)

Demon- “This isn’t over. You will see us again and we’ll take your little horned friend with me.”
We take over Villereth Ford.

Some of our groups taken away to Drezen. Paladin of Serenrae (Sergent Kaimilo Dann) asks if we’re saviors.

Sergeant Dan- “My name is Segant Kaimilo Dann. We were all taken by the dozens and have been here for some time. Frankly, I thought we had all lost hope, but I appreciate it. That goat demon, that Umestil, he was talking about how they’ve been gathering forces at the bidding of one of their masters. For what, I never quite gleaned. It does seem like they are taking many of our forces. All of us here, I suspect we are in no shape to keep fighting. But we can keep the Fort protected.”.... “It’s up to you, I suppose. I would much rather take our forces back to Kennabres, but whatever you do, we will follow you my commanders.”....  (We tell them to join the fifth crusade)....“Well I suppose, it’d be my honor.”... “One thing that I will say is that this demon, as he would talk, somewhere in the north there’s a place called Keeper’s Canyon.”.... “I’m afraid, I don’t know myself, but somewhere to the north there is a place called Keeper’s Canyon where they are sending troops to lie in wait. Supposedly there is a much larger army up there. I would hate to be caught by an ambush from them. But if we can find what it is, perhaps we can deal with them. I’ll keep an eye out. I’ll make sure the scouts are constantly thinking about this Keeper’s Canyon.” 

We get 25 human fighters and 5 army rations.

It’s completely reasonable to think the demons would try and take back Villereth Ford.
See a druid meadow thing and a unit of mercenaries. We see an army 200 strong.

First time we go into the World Wound proper (purple sky), crazy tree, weird everything. This is the west side of the West Sellen River. We see some dead hellknights on the rocks. Don’t know if they were dropped on purpose or they tried to fight and got dropped.

Knowledge nature for the stone flying thing. We don’t know what it is. Sybil thinks it may be a gargoyle.

We engage in the demon army who was waiting for us. Thankfully they have no commander. (Oops, there’s 250 demons in this army). Cambions and dretches. We break the blockade: do we continue to the mountain side where the hellknights are taking refuge?

Soldier sees inscription to some cave that a selfless cleric rescued things from Drezen. Sanctified oil, regents for rituals and sacred rituals. The brave priests tried to hide the sacred items from the demonic threat. Nerrosian will be happy to exchange these things for war funds (5 finance points).

As we advance, we go to an outpost in the walls in the World Wound. This isn’t really a canyon, but the World Wound created this massive mountain range (like something punched it beneath the earth). Has jagged ridges. Some army at some point thought this place would offer some amount of safety. We see a raided camp and 2 groups of warriors: one with yellow and white armor the other in black. They are led by a tall man in priest’s robes. Some of the gargoyles (supposed to be knights?) fret with weapons shaking in their hands. We hear screams of the gargoyles above, approaching the camp.

Person in White- “Quickly, evacuate the wounded, the beasts are about to strike again. Use cloaks as stretchers. We’ve got to make it through. Perelictor, you need to cover us so we can make it through.”

Regil- “Two more minutes out in the open and neither you nor I will have any troops to order about crusader.”

Person in White- “But the wounded.”

Regil commands the Hellknights to stab the wounded soldiers on the ground.- “Problem solved, retreat to shelter.”

Jacker to Oziel- “The perelicter will lead the unit to shelter, we need to get to them.”
Oziel agrees and we decide to make haste to save this group.
We buff up so a small group can get down into this well defended cavern.

We take Anevia with us and Irabeth insists she goes so she can help protect Anevia. We also ask Sosiel to heal us up before going down.

We confirm they were gargoyles that attacked. Lots of white and yellow knights are taken down.

We leave some weird knight to die.

Regil- “Knight Commanders, I presume. Your glories proceed you. I am Regil Denegray. Perelictor of Order of the Godclaw and temporary officer of a joint until of Hellknights and the Order of the Sunrise Sword. You and your people should take positions. The gargoyles are regrouping and I expect them to break through in five to six minutes.”

Jacker- “A perlicter, impressive.”

Regil- “Are you in command of this unit? (Oziel)”.... “I see, well in that case, let us discuss commanders to commander.”... “Perhaps you should let that Hellknight’s soul do more of the talking for you.” …. “It is hard to not recognize one from our order; although I do not know your face and I doubt that you have taken the ordeal. Your body barely looks scared from a wreckoning. You call yourself a Hellknight?”... “The way it’s done is not a secret and if we have some time later, you are welcome to give it a shot. That is if you survive this. Looking at you and the rest of your companions, I frankly have no idea how you will end up. Perhaps you will be better than this joint unit that I unfortunately have the pleasure of leading.”.... “Perhaps so, but the Sunrise Order clearly had their god on their side until they didn’t; however, the Order of the Godclaw is not some ragtag group of crusaders. I assure you my men will do their job superbly. And if this is where we die, I suppose the sooner the better.”

(We do see Jaeger with his armor half on.)

Regil- “Yes, the deserter. It does seem that he has brought some help. Perhaps we will reduce his sentence, but that will be for after the impending onslaught.”.... “These are horrifying creatures. They are not hear to kill us, at least not in entirety. They are here to capture us and take as many as they possibly could. I don’t know the reason behind these abductions and I’m not about to give the enemy what they want which is why you have seen so many dead from the other orders. I don’t want my people to be taken alive. And as for the wounded, they didn’t have time to get to their safety in a reasonable amount of time. So if that is the case, you should know that if you are wounded, I will be more than happy to end it for you.”.... “Be ready Commander, it looks as if the attack is beginning.”

Jacker- “I feel it. This troops is true Hellknights. I almost forgot the rush of slaying chaos where it stands, destroying the weaklings, friend or foe. Yes, this is where I truly belong.” (He is now a +2 of all the things he used to provide a +1 for.)

Gargoyle fight. (Seems like they’ve been on a church for awhile. Some look more demonic. One looks like it has a scepter in the back.)

We don’t know what it is, but the one with the scepter seems to be a half fiend.

Halffiend transforms something into an evil outsider (for better or worse). They get a number of extra abilities like: Smite good, darkness or desecrate (depending on level), and hefty buff to stats. Generally hard to take down.

Irabeth uses Solemn Hour to kill a gargoyle. (Normally, I wouldn’t note that, but Joel specifically notes Solemn Hour and Malort doesn’t want to be accused of stealing swords….) (He mentions Solemn Hour again….)








28 Goat Over Troubled Waters Anevia, West Sellent River, Order of the Godclaw, Irabeth, Hellknight, Order of the Godclaw, Jacker, Jaeger, Perelicter Regil Denagray, Villereth Ford, Drezen, West Sellen River, cambions, dretches, cultist, Arodus,  Anderon Silverglazer Sunday, Abadar, Brimorack, babow, dretch, Umestil

Anevia comes into our tents- “Commanders, we got a suspicious lad on the road. He says he’s an ally and he’s desperate to talk to you. Who knows who he really is. If you want, meet me in the command tent and I’ll try and sus out what is going on with this guy.

Young man is exhausted, torn clothes, wet hair, no armor/etc.- “Commanders, my squad, ambushed, beyond the river. Help.””.... “Jaeger, Order of the Godclaw. Under the command of Perelicter Regil Denagray; our squad is under attack by demons, far surpassing our numbers without your assistance, we are lost.”

We recognize the holy symbol for the Order of the Godclaw tattooed on his arm.

Irabeth- “Hellknights? They’ve supported the crusades more than once with the battle against the demons despite their questionable reputation. We however cannot abandon our allies in trouble.’

Annvia- “If they really are our allies, then sure.”.... “I don’t really think this is a knight at all. A real Hellknight would be skinned alive for losing his infamous black armor. What we see here is a stranger without rank, a weird insignia, and someone who wants us to march to gods know where. It smells like a trap to me.”

We think he’s telling the truth. Oziel talks to Jacker asking if we should be worried about him.

Jacker- “It’s really hard to know, but that said he is carrying the correct insignia. I can only imagine if the perelicter was actually with his army. If he comes back he’s likely a dead man. Which means if he is telling the truth, they really are in dire need. I mean, I can’t say it’d be the first time a demon tried to deceive us, but I didn’t even know they recognized our symbols that much. Maybe if you asked him questions about it, he could probably tell you more. I don’t know, maybe something only the Order of the Godclaw would know.”

Oziel asks about the tenets of the Godclaw. 

Jaeger- “Of course, my friend. Essentially he says: I will eliminate chaos, whatever its form and wherever it exists, resting only when the world is right.
●	I will destroy those who root lawlessness in weak hearts and minds.
●	I will strive to be worthy of not one, but five.
●	I will seek the great principles behind life, the truths spoken through many voices.
●	I will be a paragon of order—an unassailable example that others might follow.
●	I will commit what I don’t know or can’t understand to the judgment of the five.
Oziel thinks he’s fine and talks about the risk he’s put himself in. We decide to help him.

Jacker- “I appreciate it. It’s not far from here, just beyond the river.”

Irabeth- “Hmm, not far for a single fighter who’s abandoned his armor and weapons. We can’t get across that river very easily. We’d have to take a detour. Even if we can save anyone, it will seriously delay our offensive to Drezen and potentially give the enemy a chance to prepare and study our movements. The best chance we have is the crossing at Villereth Ford, which in that regard is right on the way to Drezen. The problem is I suspect it will be heavily defended.”

Jaeger points out on a map where the Hellknights are. He points out where an army is advancing on the Hellknights. We’re holed up in a natural readout. This army consists of large creatures who attack from the air. He guesses some are fighters and some are clerics with dangerous divine magics. They’re like stone come to life, they attacked while the hellknights were setting up camp when they were at the most vulnerable. The Perelicter had sent out some to scout. They only have 1, maybe 2 days before this other army falls on them. The creatures either took them off or dashed them on the rocks.

We decide to cross at Villereth Ford (the West Sellen River is big enough to take a boat through).

Jaeger decides he’s going to go back to his battalion to give him some hope.

We debate spending finance points or not.

200 demons (cambions and dretches), pretty well organized since it is a pretty strategic point. Banner of a goat head with a fireball.

The cultist army doesn’t have a commander (that we know of), 25 people in that army.

We debate force marching to the Ford. We stay put and camouflage the camp.

Becomes Arodus 30, 4715 holiday in Anderon Silverglazer Sunday.

Malort and the scouts notice the small army trying to ambush us. Unless we have darkvision we will struggle.

Abadar fully heals our armies.

Knowledge Planes/Nobility for demonic houses on flag that is flying- We know there are many demons that can fit this description. We think it’s a brimorack. We can tell this army is led by a brimorack.

Brimorack- small, minotaur like demons associated with Baphomet. Field infantry of Baphomet. Love using fire spells. When arsonists choose to become demons or they get reassigned to demons as they go to the Abyss, they become brimoracks. In constant pain from internal fire they’re living in. Their blood is boiling. Only time they get a lapse of this pain is when they’re breathing fire or casting fire spells on others. 

Cambions/Dretch mass combat. We win and then engage in combat with the commander.

3’ tall glowing goat man Brimorack- “You are to late, we have never lost this ford. You may have taken down the troops, but you never faced one such as us. Babows, dretch, advance.

Brimorack, babow, dretch fight.

Bimorack (Umestil)- “My name is Umestil of the Brimoracks. Lord Baphomet will not tolerate you, stepping forth inside the World Wound proper. Scores of your allies have fallen in this spot. You will too.”

Babows- If we damage them with melee weapons or natural attacks then they’ll get slime that damage them; they get sneak attack; shock troops of the Abyss; teleport at will; middling AC; constant see invisibility; can cast darkness.

Umestil- “You are all foolish mortals. Lay down your weapons and I promise you it will be death. If not you will burn.”... “I am Umestil, third order of demon and you will feel my blade.”


27 Lore, Lore Never Changes Queen Galfrey, Nerrosian, Sword of Valor, relic, Vallah’s Gift, Kennabres, Sosiel, Nurrah, Sherlyn, Kellids, World Wound, Solemn Hour, Irabeth, Anevia, Horgus, Nolkeria, Valacice’s Gift, Villereth Ford, Drech, Sarkorin Ruin (Sarkoris), Condundrum Unsolved, Magical Essence

Queen had to return to Nerrosian to stave off demons who may come to attack; we are to try to retake the Sword of Valor (relic) which was given in the first crusade.

Scouts reported small army (50 cultists) Vallah’s gift (people who used to live here that used to supply Kennabres with food and supplies.

We weren’t able to identify Solemn Hour, but Irabeth is holding it and can tell you what it is. Anevia, Horgus, Nolkeria, and others are with us.

Nurrah knows about this history of the crusades.
Sosiel knows about his religion and maybe a few things about life in the area.

Sosiel- “Yes, many people live here. Before we were all protected by the Wardstones. It’s not exactly the most pleasant of places to live all the time. You’re always under constant attack by demons, but overall the Wardstones prevented the bulk of them from ever breaking through. Me and my brother for example lived here most of our lives. He was able to become a great paladin of Shelyn, but I guess I should say he attempted to become a great paladin of Shelyn; but that’s neither here nor there at some point I would like to pick your brain surrounding my brother but for now, I understand that’s a little bit off topic. But yeah, in general as long as you are not killed by cultists, it’s a very nice place to live.”.... “Why do people live anywhere? There are many problems no matter where you go. If you go down to Taldor you are constantly exposed to infighting. Potentially an opportunity to be attacked by brigans on the road. If you go down to Ossirian the scorching heat. I suppose, we just accept it as part of our daily lives. Not that it is a great existence, of course.”.... “No, not at all. Actually when I was little the World Wound was much farther over yonder. It’s only started creeping this direction in the last few years. Most of us have lived in relative peace with small acceptions. The World Wound continues to expand every day. It is a wonder it has not taken all of Golarian with it. But I suppose that is part of our mission here.”.... “I live just in Kennabres, mostly just outside Kennabres, very close to the cemetery we were at before. That is where I felt the most comfortable.”.... “Of course there are, but there are also bad people and there are some people somewhere in between. You mean literally in the World Wound, no of course not. Nothing can truly survive there save demons.”.... “At least in Mendev, yes, we are somewhat close to well, most of this area used to be a different country. I’m not sure if you’re familiar with it or not but it was called Sarkoris. One hundred years ago, it was a spring of wonderful fruits, vegetables, and technologies. The people here were advanced even though they seemed to act a bit like barbarians they had a ban on all the magics to make sure everyone was treated equally.”.... “I don’t know must about Sarkoris, many of us are to young to know much. But we do see relics from old Sarkoris here and there. We hear tales of their great warriors and still I think some of the townsfolk, particularly some of the small villages around here are about weary of magic still. Not because they think it is bad for them but let’s just say a number of historical events that led most of the Sarkorins to stay away from magic.”.... “I supposed one benefit from recent experience, I feel like we never really had to deal with undead before. It’s (something) about the demons. Though demons are truly the most despicable creatures I can think of there are small mercies. I mean, certainly, where do you come from Malort? I thought you were from Kennabres and would know all of this.”.... “St. Clydesdale’s Chapel, they are mostly worshiping Iomade out there, not entirely uncommon. Although, I do remember stories back in the day that they were perfectly devoted to Aroden. Imagine that must have been a very interesting school. Did they teach you much divination?”.... “I suppose you’re human half must have been a Kellid. That would make a lot of sense.”.... “I suppose that could be a common name. The Kellids, you know, the barbarians that live to the south of here.  I just assumed you enjoyed many of their activities perhaps you had your own barbarian tribe. That maybe you came up to the World Wound to fight the demons. Your kind comes I suppose. Just figured you had some attachments to something around here.”....”Oh I apologize, I’m trying so hard not to be. Please, accept my apologies. I will change the subject. Have you seen my latest painting? I think it captures the magical anomaly quite well.”

Very few people have studied Old Sarkoris in general, for most of it the area has just been called the World Wound.

After the conversation, one of Sybil’s dwarves comes up.
Essentially the dwarves want to go drink and will come back when the real fighting starts. He mentions Scargrim the Great, one of the many Kings from the Five Kings Mountains. What are you, a lich of some sort?

Ged is around, just being around and giving pointers to his army.

Anevia offers to sneak out with Ged and see how many each demons they can each kill. She also says occasionally it is beneficial to sneak behind enemy lines and take out a commander of an army.

Queen and the rest of Nerossian is drawing the larger part of the demon army down to the south.

An area southeast in a forest, there is an abandoned campsite (2 finance points and 5 army rations). Way across the river a structure is made of bones/rocks/etc; it looks like a primitive altar.

We decide to fight the army Vallacice’s Gift (50ish human cultists). We win! We find the demons have killed everyone in Vallacice’s Gift but they gathered all their belongings together in a pile. We find 6 Finance Points and now we all learned a new boon.

Vallacice’s Gift was a more popular place just to go hang out by the West Sellen River for fishing, swimming, etc. but not anymore.

Villerath Ford is where we can go for easier crossing.

To our northwest, ancient Sarkorin ruin. Northeast another thunder storm. Army close to us is 100 Dreches. We win. Gain 25 cavaliers 7 Finance Points 6 Rations

Sarkorin Ruin- “Ancient ruins Sarkoris inherited from an unknown builder during the earthfall times. The Sarkorins dubbed this place Condundrum Unsolved. Scattered all over the walls of this ruin is numerous pressure plates and buttons and levers. The purpose of which one can only guess.” Knowledge Arcana!... Sybil coordinates everyone to solve the puzzle. A wall drops open to reveal a chest we wouldn’t expect to find. It’s almost like an urn. It has an incredibly powerful magical presence. The presence lifts out of the urn and collects in front of us. We found an magical essence. 

Magical Essence- “Essence obtained by painstaking distillation of rare magical ingredients. It is certainly an expensive and valuable substance sought after by many craftsman, used to create magical artifacts. Not sure how to use it, but this is maybe one way wizards of old used to create artifacts themselves.” We currently have nothing to infuse it with, but if we find depowered artifact, it might be one way of restoring it.




26 Invictus Launch Week Wardstone, traitor, cultist, Sheylyn, Desna, Rose Chapel, Baphomet, Eternal Rose, Wilcer Garms, Venture Captain Hilore, Pathfinder, Queen, Megalasaourus, West Sellen River (Sellen River), Drezen, vescavor swarm/gibbering mouther/jibbering mouther, Spinner of Nightmares, Lori, World Wound, Abyss, magical anomaly, Vallah’s gift, bloody mandrake

Is the Wardstone being destroyed causing problems here? Maybe not. There’s a traitor among them.

Sosiel- “These cultists aren’t simply murdering people. They’re murdering, my friends whom I tried to come and pay respects for. I can’t believe they would stoop so low to desecrate these graves. Yes, they are cultists but I thought they were human. Seems I was sorely mistaken.”

Church looks like a wonderful place dedicated to Sheylyn (which is odd because Sheylyn doesn’t keep many churches).
Stonehenge Knowledge Religion- circles of stones are part of a Desna cult that still operate sometimes. There are many representations of gods, even if they don’t have a formal structure. 

Sosiel- “I have never seen the door closed like this. The Rose Chapels are supposed to be opened to all who visit I can only imagine what is going on in the inside. I hope everyone is safe.”

We swing open the door and see cowering townsfolk and a guy with a skull for a face at the pulpit. Sosiel is pissed.

Skeletal thing- “All you have to do is die in the name of Baphomet. Have faith, I know you all can do it.”

Sosiel flips out and rushes into combat, ignoring everything. “Don’t you dare.”

Skeletal Thing- “I don’t care what you do to me, Death is what matters here!”
Knowledge Religion tells us this skeletal thing is not undead.
Skeletal necromancer cultist and zombie lord and summoned swarm of fangs fight

Undead anatomy spell- gives you many undead traits but you are not undead (like beast shape)

After the cultist goes down, we see Sosiel become a completely different person.
Sosiel- “You scumbag, I remember you. You came to our temple, begging for healing just a month ago. We fed you, we shared our table with you and took you in and then you, you, I, I don’t even know what I’m going to do with you.”

Cultist (necromancer) surrenders. 

Sosiel punches this guy and keeps punching this guys face. Cultist- you’re a priest of Sheylyn, I surrendered to you. You must spare my life. Your goddess demands it.

Oziel calls out to Sosiel and Sosiel stops.

Sosiel- “I had absolutely no idea there was this much rage inside of me. I am a shame, a disgrace, but I must admit; I’ve enjoyed beating him. Forgive me for letting you see me like this. It should have never happened.”... “You are the commander and he is your captive. It is up to you to decide his fate.”

Cultist surrenders and gives us everything, including a scroll (of resist electricity). Oziel binds the cultist’s hands. 

Sosiel- “I have no right to decide weather he lives or dies. You are in charge here.”

Oziel asks for help healing the citizens and they all become conscious again. Cloak and rod are magical. Extend metamagic lesser rod, regular dagger, cloak or resistance +1

Cultist- “Take whatever you want. It’s not like it’s going to matter. The moment you step into the World Wound everything changes. You have no idea what’s out there. Buzzing. Electricity. It doesn’t matter. You’re all doomed anyway. It was a mercy to have these people die by my hands. A mercy.”.... “I’ve seen truth, there’s nothing wrong with me. Have you been into the World Wound little boy? Have you seen what horrors await you out there?”.... “Whatever pain you do to me, it’s not as much as if one of the demons came.” and Malort slaps him unconscious.

Sosiel- “It’s alright everyone. You’re safe now. We should go back and bury the bodies again. This is a place of peace. We must not leave it desicrated like this.” But all the people take the bodies and bury the bodies. 

We help put everything back together.

Sosiel- “May the Eternal Rose grant them peace at last. Let us be on our way. There are many more innocents to protect from the horrors of this world.”... “It is not much, the townsfolk have collected a small offering to you. Please, do not refuse. I think they feel compelled to give this to you.” Gives us a small sack with 500 gp.

Oziel asks if the town would benefit from this money. 

Sosiel- “You are not incorrect, but I do believe that they see that you are here to protect them and that this little sleepy village outside of Kennabres isn’t safe and the Wardstone is down and the only way to make it safe again is to deliver us from the demons. I think this is their one way that they feel they can help.”

New face, middle aged man with short hair and short beard; rough and tumble guy that seems to know Wilcer Garms. He is Venture Captain Hilore

Hilore- “I am a Pathfinder. The Queen has invited me to join this little rag tag army. I’ve been in the World Wound for a long time now and it seems like an appropriate place for me to spend my talents to aid you as best I can. How can I be of service to you? I know many things about recruiting armies and being sure that they are well apportioned. So if you do have any questions around that, please, feel free to ask.”

Do you sell large elks?

Hilore- “You refer, of course, to the Megalasaourus. But yes, I have seen Megalasarous in these parts, but only rarely. The last time I saw one, it was up at the source waters of one of the tributaries of the West Selen River, small little town. Chilly Creek I believe it was called.”... “You must be quite the adventurer to believe you can tame a Megalasaourus. They are well known for being extremely ill tempered. Very few have been able to approach them, much less take them.”.... “Well, none the less, I enjoy your adventurous spirit. Reminds me of myself at a young age when I first become a Pathfinder.”.... “I can mark it on your war map if that is helpful.”.... “If you have not made the trek into Drezen before, I will say that I have read many accounts of how to get there from earlier crusades. The worst part of all is that there is only one safe passage and that is through a series of canyons known as Leaper’s Smile. I must say, there are a number of strange occurrences that happen around there. I have also heard that it is currently the home of a gnashing swarm of something called vescavours. Deadly creatures from what I have heard, but I have never seen one up close.”

Knowledge Planes- Vescavaours- Once, they were only found in lightless crevices and shrieking half live jungles in the Abyss. The yammering, glutoness, vermin of the Abyss are called vescavours and they crawl through portals into the material plane to feed and spawn. They are ruled by an enormous, hideous queen who directs the swarms. Finding food and destroying foes with the help of the pheromones and mental commands. Vescavour swarms devour all objects, creatures, and structures. They have an insatiable hunger and it carries with it the terror of the Abyss as it warps the minds of creatures as it tries to escape the vescavour’s maws. You know they are sometimes called the gibbering (jibbering?) hoard because they have like 100 toothy little insects that work together and their heads are nothing more than maws filled with the sickly green glow. This is why many adventures into the World Wound are cut short and people disappear when interacting with Leaper’s Smile or anything where the vescavour swarm tends to congregate. Most dangerous thing about them (and why they’re called the gibbering swarm) is the sound. Any creature within 15 feet of a vescavour swarm or in site of it has to succeed at a will save or be confused for 1 round. It is a mind effecting and compulsion effect and if you save, you are immune to that vesavour swarm’s gibbering for 24 hours. During the presence of the vesavour swarm is like being trapped in the Abyss itself. So any creature that spends 3 consecutive rounds inside the swarm must succeed on a will save or gain a permanent madness (like insanity). 

Hilore- “Of course, that is only one of the many horrors you’ll encounter on your way to Drezen and in the World Wound; but that is probably your biggest one, at least on your first steps into the World Wound. As long as you’re here on the east side of the West Sellen river, you are probably ok. At least for the most part. You won’t be in the World Wound at that point. But the closer you get to the river, you may experience some carry over from the World Wound itself as it does tend to ebb and flow. Of course, looking at all of you, you knew this. This is old information. Forgive an old man for chattering on about his passions.”... “Yes, I certainly wish I was less involved. Unfortunately, I have spent most of my life fighting the Spinner of Nightmares ever since it took my daughter some twenty years ago.”.... “If only I knew, I would try and go rescue her, but every time I have ventured into the World Wound to chase after the Spinner of Nightmares, the Spinner has continued to elude me or delude me, perhaps. Even ensure anything I do to try and regain my daughter has failed.”

Knowledge Planes- Spinner of Nightmares, even with a 30 we have not heard of the Spinner of Nightmares.

Hilore- “I wish I could truly tell you. It’s hard to describe the indescribable. It is hard to place the terror that this nightmare creature inflicts. But I can tell you this.” (Shows us a massive gash in this chest.) “This fury; however great it may be, won’t regenerate one of the tendrils any quicker. I was able to at least cut off one of the tendrils in my last attempt to save my daughter. But, this is a creature of indescribable nightmares, filled with tentacles, filled with shifting horrors. It almost reaches into your mind to come up with the worst possible thing you fear. It then takes a form of such thing. Pray you don’t meet the Spinner itself, but if you do. I will try and make sure to assist you in any way you can.”.... “My daughter is Lori, little Lori. She was so beautiful and gentle and kind. The complete opposite of this creature. If you do hear her name, somewhere spoken in the World Wound, please, bring it to me.”.... He can recruit Pathfinders for the crusade if needed…. “I will be with the army the whole time. Anything you see, I will see.”

We joke about Ged’s army becoming cavalry archers elk.

Oziel needs 5 tailed lash.

Wilsor Garms- “No shaming my friend, but I’ll send a messenger out to Nerrosian. Kennabres clearly doesn't have the appropriate thing but Nerrosian should have the appropriate thing. A 5 tailed lash you say?”.... “If I find a six is that fine?”... “Four, no?”

½ cr minimum 1 for our consumption of rations.

Talked about scouting ahead.

“For the first time in twenty years, the armies of Mendev are once again on the crusade path as you take your first steps outside the walls with a small army of 200.”

What is everyone else doing? Golarian?

“They say Mendev will cover rit. We send troops occasionally. This is literally one of the things that Mendev constantly complains about, is that people have stopped sending more and more people to the World Wound. Occasionally they’ll get infusions of troops but for the most part the other countries are like, eh, that’s Mendev’s problem. They don’t think it’s bad enough.”

We go scouting.

Vallah’s gift, small army of cultists (that we knew about)

Strange anomaly in a different hex. (We don’t know if that anomaly has ley lines; we don’t think so though.)

We decide Brett makes us move into the magical anomaly.

“Magical anomalies are common in the world of Golarian. So common that the use of the word ‘anomaly’ itself is questionable. A regular city dweller will encounter a chaotic manifestation of a supernatural power at least once in a lifetime. One might naturally assume the strange sky, the ghostly fire from the rifts in the ground, the rain of eyeballs; all that the World Wound is known should find some purchase in the mortal mind; but even the most worldly of travelers feel uneasy at it’s boarders. Why? Perhaps they instinctively know and understand that this place isn’t just a mere magical wasteland, but a would, and ulcer in which the land itself bleeds into the Abyss. The Knight’s Commanders of the army of the Fifth Crusade walk to the high bank of the West Sellen River where it draws near the boarder of the World Wound. The solder’s feet halt unbidden, on the other bank arises a series of cliffs. Two irregular in shape to be formed by wind or water. The sky hands over its dark edges in sickening bends and there is a shade of mercury on the horizon, rising to a dirty rust. The arches above the soldier’s heads gain a familiar azure hugh. Soldiers whisper and grumble. The Knight’s Commanders feel eyes on their backs. The officers give the signals to wait. The Commanders climb to the highest point along the bank. There is a strange movement in the sky. Black clouds twist into funnels and turn sickly yellow. The brooding storm is on this side of the river, ahead of the army. Avoiding this strange phenomenon will hardly be possible. Establishing report with the troops is yet another battle that leaders must face. Through the subtle alchemy of words, one can win the trust and raise morale or lose face and authority. Addressing the armies at the boarder of the World Wound is the first true test of your new battle ground. The soldiers look up to the Commanders dutifully. Smiles, appearing on their faces. Someone in the ranks jokes that the demons are growing tired waiting for them. So, this is your first major test of command. What will you do?”

Sybil tries to figure out and help what is going on with the anomaly.

Ged tries to add with diplomacy. Malort tries to add with profession Condemned but fails.

Ged- “Brave men and women, what lays in front of us is the unknown. Who knows if this is for good or for ill, this anomaly; but I feel like this will be the first of many challenges ahead of us on the way to Drezen. The reality is, there will be some very hard days. There will be some people who do not return from this journey, and all I ask is that you be confident in our ability to lead you to victory. The demons have ruled this land for far to long. They’ve taken away our livelihoods, our families, everything. The least we can do is send them back to hell (Abyss) where they belong. The first step is walking through this hexagon… and it is our first step to taking back what’s ours.”

Oziel- “I have decided that my clerics will be from henceforth called Invictus for we are the unconquered, the unsubdued, the invincible, the undisputed, the undefeated. We will take this fight through this anomaly, through this World Wound, directly to the land that lies beyond. From this day forth, we will not back down, we will not surrender, we will die fighting. And if this is the last night we have fear of this plane then so be it. But we will not surrender this world without a fight for we are Invictus and you can join us.”

Sybil does a spell she learned from the RIft Wardens to protect the army. The clouds send tornados everywhere. After an hour and a half the army continues on and only lost some hats and supplies.

Oziel looks for food and Bloody mandrakes. Malorts looks for food. Sybil does a ritual and crafts.

Ged does nothing like a bum. Then decides to try to help with the ritual. We use 6 food for the day.



25 Road to a Graveyard on a Horse with Combat Training Fifth Crusade, Queen Galfrey, Sosiel Varnek, Sheyln, Kennabres, Nurrah Denduwar, Wilcer Garms, Eagle Watch, Anevia, Bolkeria, Nerossian Scouts, Abadarian Temple Clerics, Horgus, Five King Conscripts, Irabeth, Drezen, Yaniel, Iomedae, fourth crusade, World Wound, Lord Tresbit, Radiance, Grey Garrison, Minago, Terendelev, Eternal Rose, Martyr Zacharious Church, First Crusade, Second Crusade, Wardstone, cultist, Baphomet

Official start to 5th crusade. Queen gave us the beginning of an army and some other companions.

Sosiel Varnek- Cleric of Sheyln; seems to be person who initially contacted the Queen when Kennabres fell; big part of why the Queen came so quickly.

Nurrah Denduwar- halfling, historical scholar of some sort specializing in the crusades.

Wilcer Garms- Quarter master, serves as the equipment vendor in the crusader’s came. (He IS the crusade).

Army of 200 troops.

Boons- you get them the first time you defeat an army

Eagle Watch (part of)- people from Kennabres (training a lot with Anevia); mostly humans; Nolkeria

Nerrosian Scouts- Queen’s lead scout troops- mounted units; Nurrah

Abadarian Temple Clerics- channel positive or negative energy; Horgus (well supplied); Sosiel

Five King Conscripts- Dwarves with tower shields and dark vision; Irabeth

Cultist movement plans show us 4 armies in our way to Drezen

Joel and Matt made an agreement about crafting

Nurrah excited to help: Tell me about my mom- “Wow, that’s a cool sword, who are you?”....”Yaniel is your mom, holy cow. Are you sure because she’s like really old. That was like 80 years ago. I mean, maybe you’re like a fancy tiefling that’s mostly immortal. Is that the case?” …. “Humans do have old babies, they’re called adults.”.... “I can certainly try. Yaniel, Yaniel. She was one of the famous demon hunting paladins of Iomedae back in the fourth crusade. I mean the fourth crusade was a pretty shitty time, anyway, from what I see here in the notes, she seems to have adventured alone into the World Wound, mainly because she had some disputes with the crusade hierarchy. Lord Tresbit wasn’t exactly great at really assigning everyone responsibilities. Kinda thought he was; well don’t let me go to much into Lord Tresbit. He and I go way back. He and I go way back.”... “No, you’re right. I’m not that old. But Lord Tresbit is somewhat old. I would say gods rest his soul but uh, that dude can eat shit. Anyway, you wanted to know more about that um yeah, I guess the main thing that we know is that when she went off on her own, in 1692 she did so to avoid excommunication from the church of Iomedae. Not exactly a great look. That said, she always was a great warrior. She probably slayed countless demons before she just disappeared somewhere into the World Wound. I’m afraid that’s all I have in terms of actual information. Turns out when you don’t come back from the World Wound, they don’t tend to keep writing about you.”.... “Sure, I can try and keep looking. Yaniel at some point was supposed to be a massive crusader and maybe there’s some more stuff, I just haven’t read it yet, but I’ll look for those books.”

Her tent is filled floor to ceiling with books.

Nurrah- “Well, hold on, I think I know one thing. You found the sword in Kennabres, right?”.... “Here’s what the official record says. She reconciled with the church after she returned from the World Wound, but here it says she was killed by Minago and then her followers returned her sword to Kennabres to display it in the Grey Garrison. How does that sound?”.... “That’s what it says here. Slain by Minago. Do you know Minago? She seems pretty interesting.”.... “Nice talking with you. If you need anything let me know!”

We realized we never followed the blood trail of Terendelev at the Grey Garrison.

Oziel tries to send the Abadarian priest to explore the trail; they of course want money. Seems like the body was lifted off the ground, still inside the walls of Kennabres.
Priests- “We didn’t detect any neciant (nesiant) magic, but there is many things. Perhaps it was a fast acting portal.”... “How do you think I know what demons want a dragon for. It seems ridiculous for you to even ask.”

We get Sybil cured of filth fever by Sosiel.
Sosiel- “It is very good to meet each of you. I was surprised you did not talk to me earlier’ but it is good to see you now.”.... “What is wrong my friend? You seem rather merose. I understand. I also have had some hard times in my life, but you know what helps make me happy?”.... (points to easel and brush.).... “Sometimes it’s nice just to take your minds off things.”.... “Well, this is the sky of Kennabres which is still a bit streaked with towering plumbs of black smoke, of course; but if you were asking in the most simple of terms, it is a painting. Certainly you’ve heard of them.”... “Yes, at least as a cleric of Sheyln as much as anyone could live anywhere; But yes, my name is Sosiel Varrack, I believe you and I have sort of only met. The Eternal Rose has seen fit to make me one of her resident clerics here. I know most people would consider the goddess of beauty and art a little bit useless in a war, but this is not the usual war, nor is this our usual enemy. Demons, of course, are the embodiment of everything evil and ugly in this world and that is probably why I am here.”... “I have no doubt that you commanders will win this war, after all we simply must have, we have to. It is our destiny and if it is my role to help you and standing beside you in the struggle making sure you survive and flourish. Everyone deserves to find peace and happiness in a world that they are defending so selflessly. I know that you are all burdened by many cares right now, so I understand if you do not find the time, but I do have a personal request if you could.”.... “Before we undertake our journey and leave Kennabres behind, I would like to visit Martyr Zacharious’s cemetery for a funeral. It is not far from here and it is important. I would like to pay my respects to my friends from the Temple of Sheylyn who have died defending the city. Also, if it is not to much trouble, I would like you to come with me to honor their memory. Their friends and family will be at the funeral and then prehaps the Commander’s presence, such as yourself, will bring them a particular comfort. Now, I know you must be rather busy indeed. I’m sure leading the crusade by yourself is no joke. But I still believe this is something you’d be able to help with. This war has been raging for one hundred years. You’ve given us a chance at victory. Perhaps you can give their families a chance at closure.”

We agree to go with them.

“It is only a few hours outside of the city, still technically part of it. If you would like, you could go to the world map and see….”

It is one tick closer to the World Wound.

Knowledge History- We’ve heard of Zacharious who this cemetery is named after. Zacharious is the wizard who accompanied her and martyred himself. One of the best wizards of the fourth crusade *corrected to first and second crusade*. Could have hit level 20. He seemed to martyred himself to make sure the World Wound did not expand further but no one has found his body or really knows what happened to him.
Wasn’t there an artifact of his that got stolen? His wand.
Martyr Zacharious cemetery.

Wardstone protected this place from most desecrations.

Sosiel says some nice words at the graveside while he chucks some dirt into it.

Something moves in the graves. It starts to climb out.

Totally surprising undead fight. (Zombie Lord and skeletal champion fight)

Sosiel looks at the corpses of his friends, returned to rest by his own hand- “What is this twisted mockery? Who could possibly wait? What is this?”... picks up a black gem from the ground (onyx….) engraved minotaur's head on it (unholy symbol of Baphomet).... “Cultists, simply murdering my friends were not enough for them. No, they have to come to the funeral and desecrate their graves. The townspeople fled without knowing they had a traitor among them. They are in danger. We must find them.”









24 The Fifth Crusade second crusade, Grey Garrison, Irabeth, Jenohawk, Jorhan, Draya, boat, Kyato, Horgus Gwerm, Anevia, Solemn Hour, Defender’s Heart,  Staunton Vahne, Hellknight, Jacker, First Crusade, Erastil, Prelit Lord Hulrun, Condemned, Irabeth, Iomedae, Queen Galfrey, Mendev, Darin/DarenArende, Keonen, World Wound, Kennabres, Wardfield, Aroden, Leotor Hawkblade, Queen of Mendev, Sarkoris, 1601, Taldan,  Nephilim, Neao, Hand of the Inheritor, dream, Jamba Juice, Old Grumps, Desna, sextant, Knight Commander, Drezen, Sword of Valor,  Nurrah Dendawar, Sosiel Vannock, Sheylyn, Wilsor Garms, Minago, Staunton Vahne, Leper’s Smile, Vescavor Swarm, Lost Chapel, Fifth Crusade, gargoyle, necromancer, Eagle Watch, holy relic, Lord of Drezen, Eagle Watch, Nerrosian

Recap: We vaporized things going through the air, probably the first lost the demons suffered since the second crusade.

All of us are standing in front of the Wardstone fragments that unmade us and then brought us back together, all the demons below are torn to shreds. The crusaders are staring at us in awe. Irabeth looks up in utter mismay.

Irabeth- You did it. I never thought we would assault or own Garrison or destroy the Wardstone. What are you?

We don’t know.

Irabeth- It may be burning, but Kennabres is ours again. Your friends, the Mongraelman (Neathers) have given their lives, just as divine providence has suggested they would. Kyato saw we were winning and returned to his village. Jenohawk (damphir) is still serving drinks at the inn. Don’t know where Jorhan went. (Draya the healer in Neatherhome is dead.)

THEY SAID THE BOAT IS OURS NOW!!!!

Horgus- Horgus Gwerm is still here and here he will stay.

Anevia- Maybe we should go to Defender’s Heart and sleep.

We’re angry and confused why Staunton went with Minago. Did he recommit himself, why give up his second chance, 

Irabeth- “I’m also surprised. I always stuck my neck out for Staunton. Yes, he did something despicable, but he was sentenced by our Queen and I assumed it was for good reason. I didn’t expect him to betray us once again. At least this time when his betrayal happened, we kept the city.”... “I hope there is still some place for redemption, but I wouldn’t hold it against you.”

Malort shoves Irabeth’s longsword to her.

Irabeth- “This, where did you find this? This is Solumn Hour, my father’s sword. It’s an interesting story you see, I sold this some years when Anevia fell particularly ill and needed some very expensive magical treatment. I had no money, no rank at the time. I had already given most of what I owned to charity. This was the only thing I could do to save her life. Even though this sword meant the world to me. My father was my hero. My father was the reason I became a knight, became a paladin. Some things can’t be bought, you wouldn’t understand. After I pawned it off, years later I went to the same pawn shop to buy it back but it disappeared and I thought I would never see it again. I can’t really say how much this means for me. Here. I will not take no for an answer. This is more than enough to express my gratitude (gives us 5000 gp).  She is in awe of what is in her hand.  +2 demonbane longsword is what we gave away….

We go back to Defender’s Heart 

Ged looked back at the helms that were reassembled. Ged also touches his wound to his spirit. 
Hellknight helmet belonged to Jacker of the First Crusade. Elk helm, worn by warrior of Erastil in the First Crusade, Condemned, 

Things are beginning to feel more familiar to Ged, but he doesn’t understand everything yet.

Matt- Ged been Rip Van Winkled from the first crusade?
Brett- I don’t know.

Anevia- wants us all to celebrate and teases Irabeth for wanting to not have this celebration.

Ged had a mortal wound to his soul healed. He’s finally starting to see things to appreciate.

Oziel is also a little grumpy; partially because he saw Lord Hulrun (his hero) on display. He also saw a bunch of things in this vision and doesn’t know if he made the right decision yet.

We need to decide what to do with Hulrun at some point.

Irabeth- We need to mourn the fallen. The Condemned have said there have been no more demons around Kennabres. It seems the gods have intervened… Iomedae’s blessings will not be conveyed through stones.

Queen Galfrey- has been making snide comments. I am Galfrey of Mendev. News of your deeds reached me before the messengers could. I came here without fanfare to not take away from the heroes. My personal guard is standing guard outside this keep. Everyone who fought to preserve Kennabres will celebrate tonight and my forces will make sure there is peace and order. I wanted to meet the new crusaders we are talking about. I am happy to take questions. “I must announce who the new leader of Kennabres is. I heard you discussing the late Lord Hulrun, but Iomedae rest his soul. Unfortunately, it is one of my least favorite things to do as a queen. But we shall introduce you to him shortly.”

Queen Galfrey- “I have met Iomedae herself and of course it would be silly, but quite frankly when it comes to leading armies, sometimes a little bit silly or a lot of bit meaningful will go a long way if it truly doesn’t do anything. Inspiring those to commit great deeds is just as important as committing the deeds yourself. Well, I can see by your stunned silence that you’re ready for me to announce the next leader of Kennabres, but of course it is my assimar cousin, Count Daren Arende to take noble responsibility for the crusades. I will appoint him in a leadership role until I can find a more suitable person.”

Darin- “Yes, I live to serve you, my Queen. My first thought, of course, was that Deskari truly robbed us of the noble Terendelev and half of Kennabres’s crusaders in one fell swoop was you, my Queen and how these events would weigh so heavily upon you. No one could have foreseen the demon attack. We have so successfully held the attack here. No doubt do to my leadership abilities, and these four heroic crusaders.”

Irabeth doesn’t like him.

Darin- “I value your dedication, count and your eloquence.”

Galfrey- “I hope you will continue to aid our soldiers.”

Darin- “Not a chance, you know I am not one made for the front lines.” Implies we are. There really are other matters I should get along with. “There’s a new shipment of wine from Keonen and beautiful creatures of the same providence will be here. But I will say my farewells before you depart on this campaign which is undoubtedly ground in victory.”

Galfrey- “I’ll hold you to that, Count.”.... I have big announcements for all of you tomorrow, especially you four but I will keep you in suspense a little while longer. The heroes of Kennabres…. None of this Your majesty nonsense. “I am a warrior Queen and queen of warriors and I count you amongst my brethren. As to your actual comment. I of course have been keeping close watch on the scrying pool and I of course have seen your spectacular display. One that I haven’t seen in many many years. I daresay since I was a young woman. Some hundred and twenty years ago.” (She doesn’t look a day over 28.) She looks human.

Galfrey- “So many things, so many things I will never forget. Back in that time Iomedae was just a herald to Aroden. It was amazing to see her ascend to his position soon thereafter. But at that time Iomedae had opened up the crusades to us and we went forth with righteous indignation, conquering our foes who had opened up this dreadful World Wound. Iomedae had given me the go ahead to be the beacon of peace, the beacon of victory for all of Mendev, neigh, the entirety of Golarian. She has imbued me with some amount of paladin like abilities of course, but something beyond that. A covenant, a covenant that would say that I would never stop until the World Wound was closed. And never stop I have since.”

Galfrey- “Who else was going to be the one to lead us to victory in the crusades, heaven afterall is sparing with their blessings. And while my beloved Iomedae still does much for me, we need much to be done. Afterall, we have taken a few beatings over the past century.”

Oziel asks about the Wardstones and them keeping the demons at bay for many years. We were forced to destroy it. What consequences did we open ourselves up too.

Galfrey- “This seems like a conversation for tomorrow, but I will say this. The Wardstones was one of the greatest gifts that Iomedae had ever bestowed upon us. It was perhaps the most worthy thing she ever did to save us and indeed, rather than the crusaders I would dare say the Wardfield itself is truly responsible for ensuring that demons have not conquered Golarian and their disruption will certainly be felt. But there was a time before the Wardstones and that is what I am eager to return to. And of course, as the people responsible for destroying those Wardstones, I would like to think you would have a hand in changing the world for the better.”

Cheers. Your cousin seems weird.

Galfrey- “He is a noble of course and I try to make sure to include him. After all, he is an assimar and touched by heaven and I won’t lie to you. If you were to do some of your magic I suspect you will find him to be a very strange assimar indeed. But I hold faith that his duty to the crown and his responsibility to heaven begin to change him for the better. Sometimes we have to invest our time into those we don’t think will succeed in order for them to grow. Sometimes that is rewarded and sometimes it is not…. There will be many who stay behind for sure. After all, there are many knightly orders with many people such as Leotor Hawkblade, the Prelit’s right hand. I’m sure he will be able to steady the city in the meantime…. Many people thought I couldn’t lead either, and here I am 150 years later. Sometimes, it just takes the right little push. Afterall, I don’t remember seeing you rise to any station. But here you are, discussing it over drinks with the queen of Mendev.”

How did you become Queen?

Galfrey- “I of course don’t aspire to those awful ideals of our brethren to the south. My grandmother was the last Queen of Mendev on a diplomatic mission to Sarkoris back in 1601. I basically became the queen at the age of twenty after that. That’s the way most queens are made and if you would love to have more history, I suggest you pick up a book.”

Are you an assimar?

Galfrey- “No, I suppose I will overlook a little insubordination of all of you. No, I am fully human, Taldan by birth. Just because I have a cousin who is an assimar does not mean that I am an assimar myself. Daren is from a, we’ll say a much younger aunt or uncle for me. Another one of those troublesome things from living so long…. The your majesty thing again. Perhaps I should punish you (Oziel) in some way.” and gives a wink. “I suppose each and everyone of you need to learn to address me at some time. Galfrey is perfectly acceptable.” “Yes, yes, I do know that the Nephilim in general have problem with some of their reputation. Some of your kind clearly deserve it, but there are more things in heaven and earth.”

Sybil- You call me a Nephilim?

Galfrey- “Well, that is what you would call yourself, yeah?... Just wait till you get to second edition and that is what they’ll call you…. I expect that each of you will come outside the walls of Kennabres at 11:00 sharp tomorrow. Please, wear your finest armor as you will be addressing, well, I won’t give away the full surprise, but please look respectable and I expect you to be there on time on top of the hill.”

Irabeth- “She is a fantastic Queen, she just tries to show that she is one of us, that’s all…. She has been the driving force of the crusade the past 150 years, I’m suppose that’s enough to drive anyone different…. I’ve never even seen Galfrey express an interest in being married so that was definitely interesting to me…. There is something heavenly about you (Oziel) that reminds her of an old friend.”

Neao (weird man/woman that asked us questions about tomatoes and puzzles).

Dreams- “Dreaming of each other in some way, sitting around a large circle, almost like there is a table, a large table, like the Arthurian legends style; but when you kinda look around, you see that you’re not the only ones at that table. There is another figure sitting at the table with you. The figure is clad in golden armor, has a halo of blade, large wings, and a face with a helmet that looks a lot like this. ‘My heroes! It’s great to see you! I have been watching you from afar and it is great to be the first time I can reach out and touch you and say hello. Afterall, it’s not every day that you see someone ascend into godhood, or at least demigodhood. More or less, you are on the path to demigodhood and of course, we have no idea where your powers came from, but it does seem that Iomedae has recognized the good deeds you did and while she is unable to help you directly in this path; I, the Hand of the Inheritor, are able to bestow upon you certain gifts. If only I would have met you earlier, I could have given them to you to aid you in your quest to destroy the Wardstone; but none the less, I can give them to you now.’ A drink appears before each one of you. ‘There’s not much I can do, except say thank you for your devotion to the goddess and with this swig you will find yourselves renewed, empowered, and perhaps just a little bit stronger than you were before. And this is beyond this mythic ability you have picked up.’ He brought you juice. ‘This juice was crafted by Jamba himself. Please, drink deeply and you will feel this power as soon as you wake up. New things will come to you. New thoughts, new feelings, new muscle groups and we will be watching your progress very carefully. Now, before I fade away, are there any questions you have?’.... ‘Just whelmed? Then it seems we are on the right track. You don’t want to be underwhelmed, and overwhelmed is bad, but whelmed is correct.’.... ‘One would hope, hopefully my paths should cross with yours again. It was a great first meeting. Until the next time, Goodbye!’”

We drink the juice! More hit points (5 permanent hp); +2 to any 1 specific skill; and one bonus feat (woot!)

Each of us have a second dream.

Malort’s dream- “An angel in front of you, an angel glowing with light that feels comfortable, that feels you’ve known it all along. The angel smiles at you and puts a hand on your shoulder. You feel an incredible power begin to well within you. You know that the light that radiates within you has changed and now you can focus this radiant light to both enemies and to allies. You feel this ability begin to well within you and you think back on your history. You think back and you get this image of your family, or at least Old Grumps trying to explain to you who your family really is. He’s never really successful at doing it, but he does teach you that his life in the crusades and your true family wherever they are, taught you truly how to resist the mental effects you’ll be experiencing in the World Wound. Now, you kinda already knew this before, but with this angel touching you, unleashing this new ability inside you; you get a +2 trait bonus to you will saves permanently. Additionally, any time you fail mind effecting effects, you can expend a mythic point to reroll the save and cause the demon that tried to effect you to become staggered for a round equal to your mythic tier.”

Ged’s Dream- “As you look up in your dream, you see, of course, an old man somewhere in the woods; chopping wood. He begins to chop a large pile and he looks over to you and smiles. He picks up a piece of wood and chucks it directly at you. Your reflexes are able to quickly grab it. Almost as if your hand moved on it’s own. +2 trait bonus on reflex saves; 1 use of mythic power to take 20 on any acrobatics, bluff, or disguise, sleight of hand, or stealth check without any time required to make that check. It’s almost as if the moment it comes at you, you find a way to force the reality to move it into your hand. New ability: greater dispel effect but only in things of the illusion school because you can see things as it truly is.”

Oziel’s Dream- “You see a woman in armor, short hair, silver armor with a sword emblazoned on her chest (Iomedae). You know there is a kinship here. You know her name is on your lips. You never wanted to say it directly. You never wanted to say that only one goddess would before you. However, as she turns to face you, she reaches out her hand and smiles. She grants you a second domain. You are able to use all the spells of those domains as spell like abilities like you would with your first one and by expending a use of mythic power you can use any of your domain abilities as spell like abilities. You also get the ability to focus the healing energies you’ve had inside you the entire time, and not only amplify them toward your comrades but push that positive energy towards enemies and disrupt their atoms as well.”

Sybil’s Dream- “You sit down and contemplate; you see your sextant in your hand somewhere from your family. You kinda begin to ponder it; you’re not entirely sure where it’s from, but a beautiful creature with butterfly wings floats down and strokes the top of your hair (Desna). She gives you a small kiss on the forehead. At that point, you begin to feel the ability to open up additional caster levels within yourself and they begin to emerge from you. +4 trait bonus on caster level checks to penetrate spell resistance of demons. Once per day, you can use mythic power to recharge a magical item by 1d10 plus mythic tier. (Like a wand.) Instrument of freedom- You look down at your sextant and it begins to not just be a sextant but it turns itself into a harp, a literal instrument of freedom. You feel you could use to disrupt your enemies.”

Everyone wakes up the next morning.

We see the Queen and her guard. We see a massive (200 person army) by this hill. Tight rows and quarter masters. Many flags of Mendev flying, all with the symbol of Iomedae. Galfrey is there in her ceremonial armor and she beacons us over.

Galfrey- “Rise warriors, today is the day of sorrow and pride. Sorrow because we weep for our brothers and sisters who have perished in Kennabres. Pride because despite the demonic treachery, our heroes repealed the attack and saved the city; however, our Wardstones are destroyed and the imminent threat of demonic invasion is at hand. Only one true path lies at our feet. ONce again, the fate of Golarian and I, Queen Galfrey of Mendev declare this day, the first day of the Fifth Crusade. I am glad to introduce those blessed by Iomedae to lead the attack on the forces of the Abyss. The heroes of Kennabres. Sir Ged, Sir Oziel, Sir Sybil, and Sir Malort. Each and every one of you, I appoint you four the rank of Knight Commanders of the Fifth Crusade. These are your armies from now until victory or death.”.... “Soldiers, you are dismissed. Knight Commanders go in the camp’s headquarters whenever you are ready.”

Effectively we now have a 200 person army to divy up and we’ll do more mass combat.

This is a dream/goal of Oziel (to join Hulrun and his armies but wasn’t able to.)
Sybil wasn’t planning to have to study military tactics.
Ged feels like another piece is falling into place; he feels like he’s doing what he needs to do.

Oziel admits to being racist to tieflings but he decides Sybils and Malort are ok.

Galfrey is calm and thoughtful- “Commanders, I am satisfied with the troop for you, but I don’t think they will be sufficient for your task. You have yet proved yourself a shrewd leader in hire more and more accessory troops with the funds I provide you. Now I have chosen a target for your campaign. That target is Drezen, our lost outpost within the World Wound. The sword of valor was kept their, a banner that was once carried by Iomedae herself. Our greatest relic was lost when the city fell and I should make one thing clear from the start. The sword of valor is not just a mere symbol, but a powerful weapon against the demons. The holiness of the banner weakens them and robs them from their most dangerous ability, teleportation. A forced march to Drezen awaits you. The sword of valor will be kept somewhere within the citadel. The demons probably think it’s just some hunting trophy but if you can recover it. It’s just as important as retaking the city itself. I hope this task is clear, but I’m not going to send you alone. You will have need of and support of understaff and I have brought two additional specialists with me that I am sending along with you. First, a historian Nurrah Dendawar. Second, a cleric, Sosiel Vannock.”....

Nurrah Dendawar- “Hi, it’s amazing here, isn’t it? It’s like I’m in a ballad. There’s knights in shinning armor. There’s dangers, glorious feats. We’re going to show those demons. I’m so tired sitting in a library reading books about history. It’s time I took part in it.”

Sosiel Vannock- “I’m glad to help your cause commander. If you have some time later, I would like to speak with you.” His armor has the symbol of Sheyln and he carries a large glaive.

Galfrey- “You’ll all have plenty of time to talk. You all of course are Knight Commanders and these will be your trusted advisors and companions and please, bring Irabeth with you.”

Irabeth and Anevia step into the tent.

Anevia- “You didn’t think you could get rid of us that easily. We’ll be with you every step of the way.”

Galfrey- “Well now, now that you have heard my news and see the task at hand. I must imagine you have further questions, commanders.”....“I do expect you to hire many mercenaries and knights to aid you.”

Is there a base of operations we can use?

Galfrey- “Not of one per say, but there is this moving camp. This encampment is easy to pack up. I have brought with me many earth elementals that will carve out the ground for you. Air elementals to set up all of our tents. Some fire elementals to make sure the fires never go away. And some water elementals to make sure those are supplied as well. Additionally, the war chest not only contains gold for you but also large supplies of food and other sundries for your trek. I have also appointed Wilsor Garms. One of my absolute favorite quarter masters to continue to supply you with the necessary supplies and to obtain anything you may need along the way. This will be packed up and travel with you. After all, it is very difficult to force march an entire army all the way to Drezen. That said, it is very important that this force is small enough not to attract to much attention which is why I’m giving it to you now rather than bringing the entire army to Nerrosian, down to Drezen.”

What defenses and opposition are we up against?

Galfrey- “It’s walls were built by dwarven craftsmen and the power of the sword of valor protected the city. Alas, the raging hoards that will inhabit it are not the least of your worries. There’s certainly the lying tongues of demons are often all they need to succeed. Afterall, that is how the demoness Minago convinced the young and ambitious Staunton Vhane that the banner belonged on the battlefield and he carried that banner during an unapproved raid which is how we eventually lost the banner to begin with. I suspect that we don’t know the full capacity of what Drezen’s defenses are. Afterall, it has been since the third crusade since we’ve been able to push toward Drezen what so ever. But I suspect you will find that as you march to Drezen, you will send out your own scouts to get a more accurate view of what the dangers are. I will say this. In my attempts in previous crusades to march on our way through Drezen. There are many dangers ahead. The first of your major challenges will be Leper’s Smile, a winding canyon of well let’s just say awful proportions. Let’s just say my scouts have also seen the buzzing hoards of the Vescavor flying around the World Wound, devouring soldiers anywhere that may come into contact with them. There are legions of gargoyles that patrol the skies, so I do not expect an ariel assault will be particularly advised on this particular account. Additionally, there may be other dangers along the way. I have heard rumors of necromancers from the Grey Garrison and I believe they probably have taken up residence at the Lost Chapel which was the site of a horrible massacre some years ago. So you certainly have your work cut out for you.”

Sword of Valor weakens demons, is it currently active? Can we kill demons around it?

Galfrey- “Unfortunately the sword of valor requires it to be unfurled and fully displayed to project it’s power. Right now, we don’t know exactly where it is, but clearly it is not being displayed or the demons would not be able to teleport. This is the main reason we haven’t been able to make major advances since the first crusade. The demons just teleport away and continue to reinforce themselves. Back in the day, when we first had the sword of valor, it was a much more even playing field. If you can get there, we can get that even playing field again; but it must be fully unfurled and displayed for the power to work.”....”It is not so simple, you see, the sword of valor itself was given to us by Iomedae. It is one of her holy relics. One does not just make a new one. I believe one cannot just destroy it either. So I still have a lot of hope that it still exists.”

The chapel you mentioned….

Galfrey- “The Lost Chapel”.... “Unfortunately, I have a feeling the denizens of the Chapel will probably find you. If you are able to clear them out of the chapel which is not far from Drezen itself, it would provide you a very unique advantage from the city. It is high atop a hill, it is an excellent strategic point. And you would do us all a favor by ridding us of all these vile necromancers.”.... “Some actions maybe seem bold or extreme, but I do hope you don’t see me sending you as a last resort. I am not a simple monarch. I am at war with the enemy. Yes, a war that has lasted well over a hundred years and I cannot allow myself the luxury of just being cautious. In you, I see a chance and I’m willing to stake everything on it. You cannot blame me for putting you in charge of this crusade. I have only formalized what has already happened, in the hearts and the minds of the men and women out there. People spoke of the power you exhibited when you destroyed the Wardstones from corruptions and destroyed the demons. The word of this feat quickly has spread beyond the boards of Mendev and there’s no person or people that I would trust more to lead the the fifth crusade more than you four, so yes, I am very confident in what I’m doing to send you.”

Is there any reason to believe Minago has fled to Drezen?

Galfrey- “I think there is pretty good reason to believe that. Yes. She is the Lord of Drezen for the most part so I would suspect that you will encounter her unless of course she has brought a new citadel commander, but I don’t know why that would be the case. You could also ask Nurrah at some point if you had questions regarding the Lost Chapel or the citadel itself or even Minago. She may be able to research many of these things for you…. Perhaps I should tell you first since you have not asked you yet who your army is down below. Everyone we saw at the parade will be part of your army. The first of all of them is the Eagle Watch who remain a powerful force thanks to Irabeth’s resourcefulness. Also marching with you, there are several minor knightly orders. The minor volunteer units like to be called that, I suppose. And finally I’ve selected some of the recruits from Nerrosian. They have little in the way of battle experience, but they have determination and thirst to prove themselves. I have always believed that each army benefits from one such unit. Please, make sure you outfit them as you see fit. These four forces, of course, are not enough to take Drezen, but I do believe you are a brave commander, and I know you are one so this is just the beginning. After you retake Drezen and recover the holy sword, you will gain a foothold in that region and new armies will flock to you. The fifth crusade is only the beginning and many battles and victories will lie ahead. And who knows, we may be able to push beyond Drezen for the first time in over one hundred years.”

What are you going to do?

Galfrey- “I will prepare the defenses at Nerossian and other important cities and plan the future of the fifth crusade.”

Should we come across Staunton, what should we do with him?

Galfrey- “What do you mean, Staunton isn’t still here with the Eagle Watch?”.... “I wasn’t informed of this. See, after Drezen fell after Staunton, he was sentenced to death. He deserved it. Wartime, men are hanged for far less. But you have no idea what a terrible sight it is to have a raging crowd of crusaders baying for blood. Never have my fighters looked so much like the demons we are fighting. So I commuted Stunton’s sentence and stripped him of his rank. Not just for him, but for my army and my country. We’re not hellknights afterall. We do not maintain discipline with public executions. But if you do come across Staunton, try to understand his actions. But it is probably a better recourse second chances are usually fantastic devices. Third chances not so much. You certainly have my permission to do with whatever you feel is necessary to secure Drezen.”.... “He is a fierce fighter so I do not think that fight will be easy. You will need to use your wits and your brawn to take him down.”... “If that is the case, I will return to Nerrosian with my armies. If you have need of me, be sure to send a messenger. It does take a few days to get here but we will do our best to aid you as we can. But if it comes down to actually marching our armies to aid you to Drezen, I’m afraid that will not be possible. If our enemies in the depths of the World Wound were to discover that I had joined the fray, they would immediately send their most vicious demons to attack and they would stop at nothing to be rid of me and thus sow chaos across Mendev so this is going to be to you to get this done properly and not attract to much attention from the highest ranking demons. I believe you have the resources you need to begin that march but as I mentioned, you will have to be resourceful. Once you do retake Drezen, I will certainly come and help show the troops that I am behind you in every way we can and let it be a surprise for the demons that they can no longer teleport. Do you have any more questions on that?”.... “Good luck Knight Commanders, I expect great things from you. I expect them to come swiftly. Now, go interact with your army and build it as best you can. You have four days and I expect you to set out. With that, I take my leave.” She salutes us.

You have the encampment and rules for mass combat. Sybil likes mages. We’ll each get a boon for leading the army. We have Irabeth, Anevia, Horgus Gwerm (joins us to make sure supply lies don’t get messed up and he’ll come with us in patriotism; reduces upkeep from 5 to 3 rations a day); Wilsor Garms is our vendor and has the old and new unique things (including consumables). Sybil took 1 Dex damage and 3 Con damage from filth fever. Good thing a cleric is coming with us! 





23 Mortal Terror Grey Garrison, Wardstone, Kennabres, Nolkeria, Jezlin, Minotaur, Dragnu and Dreadnought, Deans, Desakri, Erastil, Jacker, Hepsimera, red angels, white angels, Rovagug, Golarian, Aeon, crusader, Minago, Deskari, Starstone, obelisk, Nabrassu, Medev, Mongrel, aasimar, Abyss, Hand of the Inheritor, angel, 4639, Iomedae, second crusade, 4665, Hulrun, Templars of the Ivory Labyrinth, cultist, Baphomet, 4722, Irabeth, Staunton Vahne, 16th of Arodus 4723 (The Day of the City?), Arelu Vorlesh, Rasping Rifts, Derakni, Galabrazu, Marilis, babow, Ged’s wound

Grey Garrison is the resting place of the Wardstone and the one thing standing in the way of the World Wound expansion. Made way to final level. Will we try to destroy or fix the Wardstone. Rest of Kennabres fighting to get us to the top. Will we make it something mythical? Cleansed an area of undead which got us to level 5.
Saw through small scrying pool a fiendish minotaur is ready to take us down.

Minataurs- Heard Jeziln (read through the notes) that minotaurs sometimes act as body guards for high ranking officials. Dreadnought (actual name Dragnu) is a half fiend minotaur. Powerful charge allows him to increase his attack and overrun as part of a charge. Vicious claws and bite attack in addition to his gore. Ability to smite good creatures. It cannot see invisibility at base level, but does have darkvision. Resistances (as a fiend) resists acid, cold, and fire 10. Reflex is one of its weakest saves. Outsider native (subtype); weaknesses (none); natural cunning- innate cunning gives them immunity to maze spells and from never becoming lost. Cannot be caught flat footed.

Oziel and Ged both have a plan. Nolkeria comes and joins us and casts barkskin on us. Nolkeria gives Malort Bull’s Strength. Desna casts bless on us because she thinks Desna has blessed us and other things.

Jezlin (half elf) and Dragnu (minator) fight; Jezlin has a sythe and armor made of bones

Oziel casts mortal terror and the minotaur becomes shaken. Malort takes 1 negative level as it goes into Jezlin.

Mortal terror then makes the minotaur frightened thanks to mortal terror…..

Ged hits Jezlin with a natural 20, she takes damage and becomes entangled…..

Minotaur runs away and provokes 3 attacks of opportunity.

(Hero point to Oziel.)

Jezlin- “You don’t understand what you’re doing. Your queen, the demons, it’s all a farce.” She tries to cry out to Deskari but dies instead.

+1 sythe that does negative energy damage; the boggar is the axe which can knock people prone; horn of battle clarity; key to chamber behind us;

Stag helmet thing starts to glow when we clean it. It looks exactly like the same helmet Ged has. The pedestal says, “Chosen of Erastil’s helmet. Led in battle during the 1st crusade.” 2nd helmet looks much like a hellknight’s helmet. “Hellknight Jacker. Once the greatest of all hellknights, fallen at the hand of Hepsimera at the battle of Alashimia.” Almost 200 years ago.

Jacker says he’s right here, “Well but that like can’t be me. I mean, I’m a human, right? I’m a hellknight. That can’t possibly be the helmet that I wore. I’m not 200 years old. That’s ridiculous.” “I’m sure it’s just demons, they love to lie about things just to say screw you. It just doesn’t make any sense.” “Anyway, welcome to the Order of the Godclaw if you want. But don’t rest on your laurels here. We have other things to do. We have to destroy a Wardstone or something. After all, how often do you get a voice in your head that tells you what to do, right? Right.”

Oziel uses Jezlin’s key to open the locked room and enters a room where the vanquished Wardstone resides. The crusaders could have expected many things, but it’s an empty hall. No Minago or henchmen. Only the obelisk and glimmers of light dancing on a dirty floor. Oziel hears a seething choir almost to long ago down in the depths under Kennabres, but the voices are louder and more consistent. He sees the Wardstone not as it is, but as it was long ago, completely different. No monolith radiadianting light. It’s a cage made of pure energy. The place where Deskari struck looks like a festering wound from where the tendrils of a dirty red and purple darkness creep throughout the entire artifact. There inside are two hosts of flaming warriors, locked in battle. One, is light and the other is blood red. But they are all waiting. Waiting for what? Both armies stop. The whole host of them. Hundreds of them, turn their head directly at Oziel and look. Oziel, which side would you like to address first? The warriors in white or the warriors in red?

As you think about the red warriors; they speak to your insides. They speak of pain and lies and disillusionment. Their words reveal the truth of the Wardstone. The barrier surrounding the World Wound is built on the bondage and suffering of countless angels. Every injury dealt to the Wardstone, these angels experience as physical agony. The pain is driving them insane. Deceived by the hallow platitudes of duty and service, they suffer torment day after day for the sake of these ungrateful mortals who do not even know their names. The red warriors know that their blades, now turned against their former brethren hasten the triumph of Deskari and his servants. Once the Wardstone has been completely destroyed and conquered by corruption, it will become a deadly weapon under the demon’s control. Some of the obelisk’s prisoners beg for freedom while others only pray for death. But they all agree that this existance is unendurable; however, the rod is the perfect weapon for this massacure. It cannot force open a door to escape, but it can destroy the Wardstone and all it’s prisoners, willing and unwilling. None of them is able to claim victory, but all will be gifted with the merciful death that will end their suffering once and for all. But before you begin to think, something hidden/supprsed in the back of your mind (something never awakened before and sleeping peacefully until now opens their eyes). As Oziel opens his eyes, the entire world begins to be of stars. You see what looks like a timesteam that goes left, right, up, down. You see the day you were born, the day you died, the day the Starstone rose from the ocean, the day Rovagug explodes out of Golarian. A voice in your mind, the eyes of an Aeon urges you to look upon the Wardstone with their eyes once more. Do you listen to the Aeon or do you focus on the angels in front of you?

Oziel listens to the aeon.

The eyes of the aeon pierce through essence, matter, and time. You feel a different truth about the Wardstone. The stones are just as much a perversion of the World Wound as the World Wound itself. The demons are not of this plain, but Iomedae did give her and her herald license to disrupt the balance even further by imprisoning untold numbers of angels in the stone. A crime committed in the name of good does not offset those committed in the name of evil. It only multiples the harm done to the cosmic order. So here you are in front of it; the fate of two angelic hosts, faithful and fallen and the fate of Kennabres, perhaps all of Mendev, perhaps all of Golarian now rests in your hands. The rod, whatever power it may have may destroy the stone and all it’s inhabitants or with the aeon’s help, you feel you can mend it by killing the angel defectors within. What it can’t do, alas, is free those who wish to escape and keep the stone in tact for those who wish it to remain. The aeon believes the perfect solution to these gods and goddesses tinking is that no one lives. One strike at the perfect point, and the stone’s magic, make sure that it is destroyed and all of the angels return to their rightful place; either to heaven or to the planes of chaos and evil. The remnant of the aeon’s power draws all that it has left into your existence and urges you to put things right. But somewhere deep within you, the hunger that Nabrassu put into you. That feeling, that neither of the sides are correct, but actually the Wardstone gives you, Oziel, the ability to become a god. All you have to do is embrace the ire, the endless rage, the unbridled hatred and if you unleash it at the stone, not only do you erase the angels, the fallen angels, the aeon’s wishes, the terrors of Iomedae, and Deskari, but you become something that can restore the balance yourself. You look down at your hand and you see that somehow, quickly the rod of cancellation has made it’s way into your hand. What do you do?

Oziel believes the cosmic order must be restored. There is a way to restore balance, but it is not his place to take the power on himself; butI wish to restore the balance and release the angels.

“So you’re embracing the aeon’s path? Return the angel to their rightful planes? Return the Wardstone as if it never existed?”

What happens to our world? Does that release the demon hoard more?

The aeon is silent.

What are the options? Sap the stone and the angels are free; use the wardstone and become a god and make it as if it never existed; embrace the evil that crept inside under Kennabres as the mongraels devoured the bodies of an assimar and basically destroy them all and become a god destroying demon, aeon, and angel alike (absord the Wardstone). (Options: Destroy the Wardstone, make the Wardstone never exist, absorb the Wardstone)

Oziel uses the rod of cancellation.

Oziel addresses the furious red warriors, not in words but in intentions and aspirations. The tormented, wearied angels see compassion in him, but also the promise of rest. One day, the demons will be driven back, one day the World Wound will vanish. Like a nightmare chased away by a spring dawn. One day the sky above Kennabres will gleam a dazzling blue and when that day comes, the Wardstones will no longer be needed, the angel’s watch will be at an end. Overcome by this vision, the red warriors drop their weapons and bow their heads. They say words of farewell and fall into a deep sleep; one that will not be broken until the day of this promise will be fulfilled and they regain their freedom. The injury inflicted by Deskari still gleams in the scarlet within the Wardstone as the spread of corruption isn’t halted. The oblesk fills with a vital, healing light. Unable to bare such a fragrent violation of the laws of reality, the magical eyes of the aeon that was once sleeping inside you, fade away for good. The blistering vivid memory releases you from the depths past and into the present. You feel a fresh breeze on your face and the energy from the Wardstone has blown the roof off the Grey Garrison. The five of you (and Ruff Ruff) now open the door and see Minago standing by the Wardstone fragment. She begins her corruption magic, laughing maniacally, no one else to be seen. You see large rifts of some type of teleportation magic, perhaps even rifts into the Abyss itself begin to form above the Wardstone fragment.

Roll for initiative! And Ruff Ruff is up first…..

Oziel has the wand of cancellation in his hand and charges the Wardstone. He hits it.

Time stops. From the moment within silent darkness appears a crack of light etched with colors you’ve never seen and cannot name and it’s accompanied by a screeching, tearing sound as if someone was carving a whole in the fabric of reality. This is no gate. It is something else and it feels wrong. A faint, ethereal outline steps out of the crack, resolving into view in front of the stone. The figure is dressed in the glowing plate armor, emblazoned with the longsword and sunburst of Iomedae; feathered wings stretch out from it’s back, it kneels before the stone and murmurs some words in an unfamiliar tongue. Each syllable creates a curious resonance inside you and Ged and Nolkeria and Sybil and Malort. It almost seems like it’s revurberating in your bones a rhythmic unison within the chanting. You cannot feel the passage of time. Each of you can’t even tell if this encantation lasts a moment or a hundred years. A circle of arcane symbols begin to wrap around the figure’s left hand. As it reaches to touch the fragment in unison with the rod of cancellation; perhaps it reaches out just a little bit further than the rod. As it makes contact you feel the discordant sensation of time speeding past you, reality racing to catch up to this frozen moment. The fragment glows with a golden light starting from within but it’s core begins to grow steadily, painfully brighter. The sound of a heavenly choir fills the air. For a moment and then another pulsing silence. The stone, the Wardstone, explodes. The room floods with golden light, now impossibly bright. It sucks in the remainder of your companions into the room. Everyone falls to their knees. It is unfiltered, immediate, and eternal as you see the world illuminated from within. Hundreds of stone shards move through the room at impossible archs with edges so sharp that they slice through light and time creating a kaleidoscope of color. Some faster than your eye can follow, others crawling through the air. The fragments bend and curve around you as they shred each and each and every one of you to pieces. You are ripped and destroyed on the floor. Their is a crackling, golden vortex where the stone fragment once lay. And far from a distance you see innumerable streams of energy composed of the same unnamable eldricth color that the Wardstone was giving off before. These streams begin to pull toward the mouth like a massive vortex, entwining with one another to form a river. This river then surges through the portal and then accelerates upwards toward the heavens; disintegrating the roof of the Grey Garrison even further and burning through the dreary, abysmal haze that had settled over Kennabres. For the first time in days, you see blue bright sky and the sun; if you indeed have eyes at all anymore. This armored figure plunges toward this torrent of light, outstreatched hand and siezes painfully as some of the maelstrom of energy diverts directly into him. The armor glows to a point of translucence; he screams in agony, slowly, pain steakingly raises his right arm, now encircled by a similar set of glyphs and turns and lifts it’s head, and through his helmet you see his face. His features are youthful, but his eyes are old, ancient, he smiles at each of you through his pain, resigned, satisfied, the streams of golden light burst through his hand and slams into the fragments of each of you. Archs of light coil around you and begin to coalesce you back into a physical existence. This impact takes your breath away if it is indeed a breath you had. Your body begins to burn with golden light. You try to scream but then you realize you feel no pain. Instead you feel remade, reborn into something other than what you were; something more. Your consciousness is pulled from your body and traverses along a golden tether passing through this armored figure and into the vortex. You find yourself swept along this raging river, now into the maelstrom and you realize you were traveling within a magical field of Wardstones, simultanteously everywhere and no where. From a great height, you can look down upon Mendev. You see the armies of Mendev and Kennabres. The demonic hoards massing up at the boarder of Mendev’s Wardstones. Tens of thousands of lesser demons shriek at the sight of your eyes and they begin to melt away. The more powerful demons begin to cry out in shock, pain, and despair and teleport back safely before they are destroyed at the mere sight of your presence. They do not witness the silence that follows when the glow fades. But the torrent of light ceases, and you are expelled from this river. The vortex that Minago was trying to open slams shut. The angelic figure that steped out, dissolves, but the way that it traveled through seals itself through a crystalline shriek as if it was never there. You struggle to master this energy that is now coursing through you and your mind buckles under the strain, you feel yourself falling. Time and reality rush past you, dragging your consciousness back awake. And here you are, you find yourself in the Wardstone chamber of the kite. It is 4639 a circle of clerics surround an angel, the same angel that stood before you moments ago, or perhaps a lifetime ago. He kneels before a very familiar Wardstone, his voice linked with the circle of the priests. You gaze upon the Hand of the Inheritor, the herald of Iomedae, this armor clad knight. You witness the investiture of the very first Wardstone. Shortly after the start of the second crusade, you feel that Wardstone awaken. And that’s the first time you hear the angels inside screaming. Your vision shifts as your spirit struggles to orient itself between time and space. It’s now the year 4665, you recognize a now eighteen year old Hulrun standing in the courtyard before the kite. He addresses a large crowd of onlookers, while you cannot make out his words you feel the fervorous intent. Behind him a group of wizards begin to emulate row after row of men, women, and especially tieflings tied to stakes. The first great purge, the burnings of Kennabres. Hulrun’s soul burns with bright, pious conviction as the souls of many inquisitors are burned black with the taint of Baphpomet. The first fell harvest of the Templars of the Ivory Labyrinth right before your eyes. As the pyres light, you begin to feel the Wardstone, the angels begin to grieve as the first split from heavenly angels into the red angered angels begin to form. Another shift. Now you’re back in the Wardstone chamber, the roof is a flaming wreckage as Deskari slices with his giant sythe above the Wardstone. You can feel the heat of his immortal flame and the sickly sweet smell of his charred flesh. You can sense the Wardstone’s fear, but as the sythe comes down and strikes a massive, thunderous blow, it splinters. The tiniest cracks appear in the stone. Deskari raises the sythe again hearing the deafening roars as Terendelev begins to crash toward him, barreling into Deskari. The momentum carries them down into the Market Square. As you feel Terendelev once again beheaded. You stumble through time and your consciousness struggles to return to the present. 4722 and here you are, once again, in the Wardstone chamber. You see a dwarf, wielding a vicious glave, staring at a half orc paladin. You recognize the paladin as Irabeth which makes the fallen dwarf Staunton Vahne. Both are bleeding heavily. Vahne retreats slowly towards the plinth holding the Wardstone, eyeing Irabeth wearily, he backs into a stone and smoke rises from where his flesh made contact. Vahne screams in pain and Irabeth takes a mighty swing. Her sword crackling with holy energy, but Vahne ducks her blow and cleaves into her knee. Irabeth goes down hard and drops her sword as she instinctively cradles her shattered and mangled leg, but she does not cry out. Vahne stands over her, preparing his final strike, but a pair of paladins burst through the door into the chamber. As they race toward him, Vahne curses and flees. You can feel the Wardstone’s gratitude. Now, here you are Grey Garrison. It is the 16th of Arodus 4723, the festival of the city. The day that Kennabres was destroyed. You see a beautiful demonic woman with long, thin clawed hands and curling horns, blank flesh where her eyes should be she directs a magical disc, carrying the Wardstone fragment to the center of this very familiar circular room. The Deskari oracle that you fought earlier wishes for a cage to contain this Wardstone. The demon nods her head and the cage housing the Wardstone forms from nothingness, around it. “Guard it with your life, Jezlin.” she says, “I plan to partake to the fun in the south.” A moment later, the demon teleports away and the oracle stares at the fragment with a mixture of hunger, of longing, of terror. Your vision rushes past the current moment and your consciousness splinters, hurling toward different futures. You’re at the circular chamber at the top of Grey Garrison. Jezlin, her minotaur, several cultists kneeling in supplication before the beautiful demonic demon with batlike wings, curved like horns and glowing red eyes. Arelu Vorlesh, the architect of the World Wound stands before this Wardstone fragment and holds a dark, purple crystal the size of a human head. She is deep in the throes of some ritual magic. The part of you that is the Wardstone recoils from her presence. She completes her incantation and smashes the crystal on the fragment, every stone on the boarder flashes with purple fire that pulses for miles. Armies are incinerated, population centers and vanquished. You watch as Nerossian’s mighty World Wound tower falls and from the wreckage, the dead arise as undead slaves of the World Wound. The front lines you see a Varalith in the breastplate and crown of Queen Galfrey and she looks over at each one of you and smiles. Then reality collapses once again and is remade. You’re back in the presence, stunned. Your mind is reeling. You struggle to focus on your visions as this amber portal appears before you, gazing through it you see a vast cavern covered with the symbols of Baphomet. The whole room is illuminated by a sickly, yellow, brown glow. Arelu Vorlesh, the woman from before, stands before you, keeping this portal open and gazing into it, staring directly at each of you and lingering even longer on Malort. You watch as there is a brief smell of sulfer and brimstone as she enters the chamber. The sulfer dissipates and is replaced with ginger, cinamon, and vanilla that makes you feel light headed. You can’t tell if she’s real or an illusion. She turns her gaze toward you. Unfathomable power courses through you, and yet you feel an overpowering desire to kneel before her and please her. Only your inability to master your current body is preventing it. She smiles at you pleasently, her voice is husky, warm even. “This is unexpected. But it is a temporary inconvenience. It changes nothing. Not your fate and certainly not Golarian’s and certainly not my own. Normally, I would love the opportunity to study what has happened here, but no. No distractions. Not now with this mess that Minago has left for me to clean up. A pity. She raises her hands and completes a spell. You fell a magical pulling trying to rip the air apart from your lungs. Yet, you are able to somehow resist it. Her eyes narrow. She tries calling a different casting. Your body feels like it’s trying to disintegrate, like each of your cells are being pulled in a different direction, but a force within you stitches your body back together just as fast as she can tear it apart. She snarls at you, her anger is no longer contained. “Your Wardstone’s death throe protects you from my magic, but it is no matter. There are so many slaves to do my bidding and there are so many ways to die.” With this, Vorlesh spread her arms open and begins to open a second planer gate through it you see a poisoned sky and endless chasms of the Rasping Rifts, Deskari’s realm. Six demons jump forward. These babow demons, demonic assassins. You see that they are like echoing in further demons behind them. Derakni, Galabrazu, even Marilis. You recoil at the presence of the abyssal energies infusing in this air and the energy within you begins to rise. Do you surrender to it?

We surrender to it if it’s a good energy and it keeps us from dying.

You give up all pretense of control as you do, the energy pulsates outwards and shuts the abyssal gate, blowing up the chamber walls. Divine feedback surges against the entire city of Kennabres. The image of Vorlesh vanishes. The energy that surges through her amber portal collapses. She screams in agony, as does Minago who is currently in the chamber. You find that you can now move again. The portal closes. Her bones and shedding wings begin to break. The power in you drains to a mortal frame to something now you can manage. You see that each of your companions are glowing as brightly as the noonday sun. You look upon your hands and you see the same divine energy emanating from you. You notice that these babow demons somehow survived the magic surge; sheltered perhaps by being in the eye of the storm and you see Minago out of breath and trying to regain herself. She licks her raspy long tongue and says, “Please, kill them.” And now we roll for initiative!

Babow fight! (They stepped through the plane and are physically there.) Apparently some got downstairs too.

Oziel feels his body is fortified against demons, you begin to heal at a rate of 5 per round every turn, you resist fire and acid. Your entire body dispels darkness, all of your attacks are now good aligned and they deal and additional 2d6 damage and once per round you can roll an extra 1d12 and add that to anything.

Babow does not teleport in his presence.

Minago- “What? What are you doing here? How? I see tricks from your pathetic goddess. So Iomedae will still result to dirty tricks when you have her cornered. Don’t celebrate now mortal, there’s no one to hide you from me now.” Shoots lightening bolt on all of us.

We take 40 and 80 points of damage (reduced by 10). Anyone who goes to 0 or below is dropped to 1 hit point and can’t be dropped below 1 hitpoint for 2 rounds.

Minago- “Pathetic mortals, I’ll have no trouble finishing you off now.”

Ged looks down and sees the wound in his chest from the beginning of the adventure opened up and is bleeding like he was hit by a sword but he feels no pain. It feels like light is filling you and you feel the edges of the wound start to join and heal and closes fully. This is the first time this wound has fully closed since the beginning of the adventure and you see Minago’s face twist in frustration. Minago- “You’ll die anyway.”

Minago- “How are you doing that? Where is your power coming from?” We see Staunton Vayne drop down from the ceiling next to Minago.

Staunton- “Minago, to me!”

Minago- “Staunton, my darling, I knew you’d come back for me!”

Staunton- “Shove it, get back over here behind me.” He looks at us, “If you want to finish her off, you’ll have to step over my dead body first. Killing me won’t be a challenge, I know. But I can give her enough time to escape.”

Party is confused and pissed.

Staunton- “She’s already given me a lot more than you crusaders ever did. Compassion. Understanding. Kind words. What if I want to believe her lies? I’ve had it up to here with you and yours. Your lies about forgiveness, redemption. Do you think I know that demons can’t love. This isn’t news to me. I know that lying witch can’t love me, but what if I love her anyway.  No matter what, and if I don’t what’s that got to do with her anyway. Minago, cast your spells and get out of here, quickly, before I change my mind.”
Throws ring of Torag into the pit.

Minago- “No, my sweet. I won’t abandon you, we’ll leave this place together and we’ll go somewhere where we can be happy.”

Staunton- “No, let me finally….. Dammit, let’s go.”

We will one day master the incredible power that is residing it us one day.



22 Bug Me Not Abercandelu, Godclaw, Minago, Condro Nessian, vulkreth,Nassarian, vermleck, Drezen, World Wound, Orthirubo (alchemist), Urgathoa, fly and skull, Nabrassu, Baphomet, cultist, dretch, abercandelu, Irabeth, Anevia, Aravashneal, Jezlin, Wendago, chimera, Paryton, Keeper’s Canyon, jibbering swarm, Mendev, shiere, demonic fly, minotaur, Arelu Vorlesh, angel, Deskari, Dragnu (Dreadnought),

Sickly voice from balcony (Jezlin?)- “I know you’re down there. I’ve already called demons reinforcements. You’ll never take this fort so just go away.

Abercandelus destroyed the museum; but we find an adamantine morningstar.  Adamantine bypasses DR. Adamantine gives you unpassable DR. Morningstar is a favored weapon of the Godclaw. Magical sword. Most of the items in the room are items in the room are memorabilia from the first crusade. Many of the relics are things that originally helped crusaders break into the World Wound, establish themselves in Drezen, and help “win” the first crusade (as much as you can); there are additional magics to this +1 longsword.

Note says, “Minago, I believe you will find the enclosed weapon to be a singular and familiar delight for it once belonged to your old friend Irabeth. She sold it to Condro Nessian of all people. I have no idea why Condro has been sitting on it for years still. Still would be but his home got smashed by a vulkreth. Shame he managed to save the sword and come here. Begging for an escort north to Drezen. Doubtless, so he could give you the sword and weasel some cash to help him set up a new home. I hope you don’t begrudge the creativity I took. Our old friend, Nassarian serves now a warm suit for a Vermleck as punishment for only revealing the sword now instead of when he first acquired it. I suspect the blade will take to Staunton’s brother’s touch nicely. Your loyal servant. Orthirubo (alchemist)

Vulkreth- giant demon who came when the city was attacked. 

Hear cultists talking about army movements; Jezlin not being able to keep this fort; no likelihood that she isn’t murdered by the next time the next demon lord gets here unless she can actually kill these invaders. We should take what we can, go back to the World Wound, and blame it all on Jezlin if that’s the case. (This is the top of the balcony in the Eastern corner.)
Bloody symbol with a fly (symbol of Urgathoa or a variant of it) and skull on it with blood written on the door.  Up is where we think Staunton and Minago went. 

Urgathoa- goddess of undeath and not a demon.

The Urgathoa symbol makes us think there is a necromancer with the army. 

Nabrassu demons tend to make ghouls as well. Nabrassu demons and necromancers will sometimes team up.

Cultists of Baphaomet attack us after accidentally alerting them. After quickly defeating them we see this below:

We see 2 cultists emerge in the courtyard. We see Irabeth, Annvia, Aravashneal, and a bunch of crusaders appear in front of them. “It looks like we aren’t to late! Keep pushing forward, we got your back.”

Cultists drop crystals and multiple dretches, abercandelus appear. Irabeth raises her sword and huge battle ensues. Hoping to buy us time so we can get to the Wardstone.

A dozen bodies scattered throughout the room, each with a gaping hole in their chest. Seeing a terrifying cambion- body of a wolf, antlers of an elk and wings of an eagle.

Matt guesses it’s a Wendago. Sybil thinks it is a chimera of some type.

Joel tells it about it because it is cool. First official demon kill because the Paryton fell on a dretch because it didn’t know to teleport out of the way.
Paryton- savage creatures of nightmare, they combine features of stags, wolves, and great birds of prey. Although vicious beasts, they possess kinds of human intelligence. They hunt creatures and prefer humanoid prey and like creature’s still beating heart. It can shadowmark as a free action. Touch attack and marks a creatures heart which gives +2 to attack and damage and any attack that hits does a frighten effect on it. Gore is 18-20 hit and if it kills a human it rips out the victims heart. Also had fly by attack. DR 5 magic.

No loot, but massive amount of bodies. Find books, maps, and other things. Old map of Sarkoris. See troop movement plans of the cultists. Keeper’s Canyon, troops by there. Avoid this area (jibbering swarm). Once wardstone has fallen they will go throughout Mendev.

Door marked with a symbol of a bird. Where they were keeping the Paryton. Run into Shiere demon and flies.

Demonic vermin that looks like a giant fly and it doesn’t look like the cleanest of creatures and it explodes in a puff of acid on the ground.

Shieres have gore attacks that are powerful and if they charge with their gore attack it ups their damage potential. Anything gored with them, you could contract a disease called the grey pox. Under constant see invisibility and tongues. Potentially can do an arcane lock. DR5 cold iron and good; and typical demon resistances.

Demonic giant flies (flies that spent too much time in the World Wound) and succumbed to demonic influences. Demon energies- acid breath weapon (every 1d4 rounds); bites with a disease (this one has filth fever); immune to mind effecting effects. DR5 cold iron;

Is there a minotaur on our floor (no probably on the one above us)

Find 6 books. One is a manual of war- reusable item (you can exchange fighter bonus feats)

The letters thrown on the ground- Jezlin left in charge of defending Grey Garrison by other senior demons who saw it was beneath them. Sitting on missives of them saying “I hear them coming, they’re in the basement, 1st floor, blood everywhere, demons left.”

Arelu Vorlesh- an image appears in the room (from a missive). Beautiful woman corrupted into demonic thing. Voice comes from note, “So many plans and hopes have gone up in smoke with this city, yet so many are still to burn.”

We throw a bunch of holy waters into a room (Urgathoa room?) we kill a bunch of zombies with holy water. Used to be a scry chamber. 

We see another vision. “An angel being ripped from somewhere and forced through a tunnel. A ring, a wheel of fire. It seems to be fiery just like bursting out.” Image of scrying pool trying to shine and is unable to take off do to entrails in it. We clean it up. Basin shines again, “Image of upstairs. Jezlin and weird looking halfelf of Deskari desperately trying to protect the Wardstone. Her hand is withered off and her bones are failing her. But she is doing everything she can. She calls out, ‘Dreadnought, now they’re coming, please. Just keep them from getting to me a little bit longer. We see a fiendish minotaur ready his horns directly at the staircase.”


21 Shrine Shinners alchemist (Ortha Lubabu), Locust, Succubus, Iomedae, Jeslin/Jezlin, Jingus (Gingus), Yaniel, Oriel, the Hand of the Inheritor, Targona, Arazni, Aroden, Queen Galfrey, 1st Crusade, Kyato, Jacker, Staunton, Minago, Lillitu, Drezen,

We spend time doing random stuff while the enemy spends time buffing.

2 cultist and mad tiefling alchemist comes through the door.

Ged rolls a 15; but a 27 is a miss on the alchemist… so we SHOULD run….

We FINALLY get out of combat thanks to the debuffing in our party.

That was a 31 round combat. Thanks for keeping track, Joel.

As the alchemist falls, something goes through each of our minds like trying to tear through it, “My lady, we cannot act. We know this and we know why but I can.”

We try and loot the bodies…. Unfortunately, they mostly teleported away.

5 potions, ring, and other items.

Locust and succubus holy symbols

Malort finds a hidden door in a room. A sacred room to Iomedae. Oziel was probably dedicated as a city guard here.

Sybil reads the alchemist’s journal. Alchemist was trying to make a concoction to dip holy symbols in so that anyone who touched them would be infected with the demon plague. Deformed halfelf named Jeslin (Jezlin) who was put in charge of guarding the Wardstone after the two demons ahead of her in ranking decided it was not worth their time and they wanted to go fight elsewhere. Unfortunately he never got a chance to ask her….

We clean up Iomedae’s holy room.

As we finish cleaning, we hear in our heads, “Jingus may be aware of the ancient magics but I can travel back to that moment, I can change it. I can fix this.”

Shinning doorway still hasn’t opened and we can’t figure it out.

Statues of Yaniel, Oriel, the Hand of the Inheritor, Targona, pre fall Arazni as a warrior of Aroden, Queen Galfrey led forces 300 years ago on the 1st Crusade

Sybil does a ritual taught by Kyato (first time we’ve rested away from a consecrated space)

We talk about the voices in our head; Oziel implies he hears voices (Jacker) in his head.

Shimmering letters by a sunburst and it’s written in celestial in another shrine to Iomedae. “Let us inherit thy arms, Iomedae.”

We go back to the other door and Sybil opens it!

It’s an armory! Yay treasure trove!

100 cold iron arrows and lots of other cold iron stuff. 5 holy arrows, 1 arrow evil outsider slaying, dwarven war axe, lightened harness (extra attack of opportunity per round); cool +1 steel shield

As we walk through a room, we look up and see in the rafters on the 2nd floor, a portal appears and Staunton and Minago are grappling with each other.
Staunton goes to hit her but glares up at her with a loathing as she leans over him. Staunton- “Why did you drag me here, you wench? To mock me one last time? Go ahead. Finish me. Drink my blood, devour my soul. Just get on with it. Let me die at last.”
Minago- “Staunton, light of my life, don’t be so silly. I could never hurt you.” The lilitu caresses his face and heals him. “I brought you away from the battle to save you. You don’t belong in this grubby city where everyone hates you. Come away with me, you know I’ve always loved you.”
Staunton- “Filth, you have the gaul to say that to my face? It was you. It was all you. You’re the reason I lost everything. You’re the reason I lost everything.”
Minago- “So it was me who brought you in front of the people you call friends. It was me who mocked you year after year, spat on you, forced you to do dirty demeaning work like you were a drudge and not the bravest of knights. No, it was all them. The crusaders and their pointless Queen. If you remember, the day Drezen fell, I asked you to be its new ruler. You refused, of course. You and your principles; but look what has become of you. There is no bigger lie in all of Golarian than your beloved of the crusades. It’s a century old delusion created by your disgraced queen. The only thing that is true, is my love for you, my darling. My offer still stands. Come away with me, my love. You will rule Drezen as a king and I will be your queen.”
Staunton looks at her with a strange expression; tears well up in his eyes.
Minago- “Dearest, it’s alright. We will never be parted again, come on. Let’s go.”
Staunton grasps a trinket (holy symbol of Torag).
Staunton- “Get back!” and slashes her and flees up the stairs.
Minago- “Curses! Stubborn as a mule. Nevermind my pet, nevermind. You will kiss this scratch and beg for forgiveness. You will be mine, wholly, eternally, and willingly.”


20 Coheed and Cambion Cambion, Abercandelu, alchemist

Continuation of the battle… (20+ rounds)
Pull more cambions
Abercandelu takes Ged’s bow and teleports away with it.

Someone sent to wake up the alchemist.



19 Two’s a Party, Three’s Insane Hulrun, Iomedae, Dretch, Vermleck, Abercandelu, Cambion,

Hulrun is holding something important to him (he’s attached to the decapitated statue of Iomedae); before we can pull anything from his hand we see:

Dretches and weird human/plant/demagorgon thing

Vermleck- pale, hideous, wormlike head demons that wear flesh as armor. They can climb into any small or medium humanoid and replace the bulk of the skeleton and organs and it becomes this thing kinda. They can go in disguised as humans and ambush crusaders; Special abilities- flesh armor +3 to AC; 1d4 rounds it can inhabit a body. It is considered flat footed. It can abandon it’s flesh as a swift action and gets back 2d6+3 hit points (from absorbing flesh) and when in natural form can only use natural attacks (not weapons like in other form); No weaknesses, but general demon qualities; we eventually learn the Vemerlecks can cast mass inflict light wounds at will

Oziel grabs the rod (and Hulrun’s fingers); pretty potent rod but we don’t know what it is (totally a rod of dung weaving and the rod encourages you to do so….) In reality it’s a rod of cancellation (only thing that can restore a magic item is wish or miracle spell)

At one point, this was the seat of Iomedae’s influence and now it has clearly seen better days. How does everyone feel?
Malort feels he just wants to eradicate demons from everywhere with mom’s blessing.
Oziel is angry and wants to find and destroy. Hulrun was someone Oziel wanted to live up to.
Sybil is shocked because this is terrible; wanted Hulrun to get his dues but this wasn’t what she had in mind.
Ged felt bad leaving the people on the farm behind but knows this is where the people need him but wants to go to Chilly Creek.

Ruff Ruff is named.

Oziel sees at least 5 demons. (Oziel actually sees a tiefling and a minotaur upstairs.)

Ged starts off the battle.

Abercandelu and dretches have destroyed a museum area.

Dretch cloud is a poison effect.

Cambion also joins the fight.







18 Mass Graves for Unsung Her-whoas Irabeth, Wardstone, Terendelev, World Wound, Drezen, Lord of Locust (Deskari), 100 year war, Templars of the Ivory Labyrinth, Old Kennabres, cultist, Arelu Vorlesh, Kennabres, Storm King (Swarm King), Grey Garrison, Nehendrian crystal, Staunton, Horgus, Crumb, Kyato, Chilly Creek, Aravashneal, Nokeria, Staunton, Jorhan, Mongrael, Whoa Whoa (Malorn),Lann, Terendelev, Iomedae, Minago, Prelit Hulrun, Lord Hulrun, Lillitu, 

Irabeth calls us over because we are under attack.  She believes we can fight these enemies. “Now, as horrific as these events have been, we’ve come to realize, this even this attack is a prelude. The raising of the kite, the destruction of our wardstone. Terendelev’s murder, the assault on the city were nothing more than opening gambits on the world wound’s march towards us. They are going to do the most concentrated assault we’ve seen since the fall of Drezen. It’s fair to say the Lord of Locust’s host is finally making his move. The end of the 100 year war is upon us and it falls to us to ensure victory. While the Templars of the Ivory Labyrinth were scattered, those who serve the Lord of Locusts remain concentrated in Old Kennabres; and from what we’ve heard from inside the barricade, they’ve erected something ominous. Cultists are waiting for something and based on our own information that you’ve recovered so far, it sounds like the vile witch, Arelu Vorlesh may soon be coming to Kennabres and it appears we have determined what she intends to do. The Wardstone was destroyed by the storm (swarm) king. It exploded and it had destroyed the kite, but the network along the border did not fade completely. I believe this is because a significant portion of the Wardstone, our Wardstone still exists, but the cultists have taken it to the old garrison in old Kennabres. From what we have learned, they’re hoping to engineer some way to reverse the field generated by the Wardstones, essentially using our greatest defense as a devastating weapon. Now, this attack on Kennabres has been a predictable result causing the crusade to gather at the borders to defend it, but you can see here we’re mounting a wonderful defense. Some may wonder why the demons haven’t attacked us until now, and I believe it’s because they were waiting for Arelu to come to the border as well. If she can corrupt the Wardstone, she can strike a devastating blow against us all. In effect, we’ve lined everyone up for slaughter; however, I know Vorlesh is seeking something far greater. Likely, a Nehendrian Crystal from the missive you’ve recovered. She intends to turn the source of our hope into an intelligible nightmare. We cannot hope to evacuate everyone from this city, but we can hold them off. Particularly with the defenses you’ve been able to gather. I doubt that even with this defensive line, the enemy had any idea what we have planned and with that in mind I think we can stop all of this from happening. We just need to have you infiltrate the Grey Garrison, locate the Wardstone fragment and destroy it. Now, this can be now or this can be after we’ve mounted a defense. It’s really up to you. If you go now, I can send a small squadron with you. I can send Staunton with you and you may counter very little resistance. Granted, the loss of you and some of our forces may result in all of us being slaughtered, but it would be a sacrifice worth making. You can stay here and help us defend and maybe help us turn the tide and save most of us here but we have no idea when Vorlesh is going to get to the Wardstone crystal. It’s up to you, you’ve already proven your worth. I can only give it to your hands. I will lead the forces here. What say you?”

Oziel votes we should go.
Debate if we should bring Staunton or not.
Malort wants to bring him.
Ged thinks to bring him?

Irabeth is ok with our decision and hopes Iomedae blesses us so we all pull through.
Malort flashes light of heaven. Irabeth smiles as if she’s going to die today. Oziel removes his mask and shakes Horgus’s hand. Horgus decides to stay to help defend. Touching moment between Oziel and Horgus. Oziel says he’ll make the Crumb name proud.

Kyato goes back to Ged. “We’ll, I thought I would return to my farm in Chilly Creek, but I suppose this is what Erastil would have me do, right? Defend the community.

Ged agrees

Kyato- “Can I ask a boon of you? I have not asked very much.” He takes a small corn husk doll out of his pocket and hands it to Ged. “If I should fall, please, take this to Chilly Creek and give it to my young daughter. She needs to know why I died.”

Kyato thanks Ged for being an honored faithful.

Aravashneal- “I’ve heard you’re not joining us in this fight. That’s to bad; however, I do have one thing for you little wizard Sybil.” He gives Sybil a small book. “I’ve started scribbling down some of the things I know about being a Rift Warden. It is not complete, you may need to find a better tutor. But it will get you started.” Aravashneal finally realizes Sybil is a Rift Warden. He implies someone out there has raised her well and that he hopes Sybil finds what she’s looking for as he has been looking for friends in the wrong places.

Aravashneal- “A Rift Warden doesn’t die, he merely planes walks to somewhere new.”

Nolkeria- Good luck guys! Looks like mine ran out, maybe I’ll come back as a different character sometime.

Sybil casts some spells.

Staunton says something secretive to his brother and they give a shoulder clasp.

Staunton- “Well, let’s go. Let’s hope that bitch Minago isn’t here because I’m missing a lot of good fighting. Well, let’s go get ourselves a Wardstone.”

As we leave we hear swords clashing and arrows let loose. Spells being cast and human and demon screams. We also here a strange battle cry, “Whoa, Whoa Whoa!” The Mongreals are coming. 

About 22 minutes in at 1x speed: Joel starts explaining mass combat.

Listen to yourself if you want to understand mass combat……

Malorn (Whoa Whoa) is here so that’s cool.

Mass combat happens. Good bye Whoa Whoa (Malorn) and Lann

Heroes and Staunton arrive at the Grey Garrison. Grey Garrison once stood before the Cathedral of St. Clidwell. Nothing remains of the Cathedral except a towering mound of rubble and a deep, jagged rift on the ground. Swaths of blood on the ground. Blood is the remains of Terendelev, they’ve drug her body somewhere away from this madness but the rest of the body parts are no where to be found.

3 massive iron gates leading into entrance of Grey Garrison. Staunton says we can break through them if we can’t unlock them, it will just make a lot of noise. Other option is to look for another way in. Another way in, but it is high up. Strangely, Ruff Ruff can’t climb. Could potentially climb in another spot.

Sybil creatively opens the gate. HERO POINT!

Inside, “What was once a statue of Iomedae raising her sword high and her shield higher is now crucified across it the body of an old man with silvery hair (Lord Hulrun Prelit Hulrun).” Worse than that… “Grinning face of Minago, the eyeless Lilitu.”

Minago- “Staunton, there you are my little pet.”
Staunton- “Don’t come near me, get back.”
Minago- “No need to be so rude, my love. Let’s leave this place in peace. Somewhere where we can have a little bit of privacy.”
Staunton- “Wait, no!”
Minago moves forward and dimension doors both of them somewhere.





17 Resolution of a Cliffhanger Nolkeria, Aravashneal, Rift Warden, demonologist, Blackwing Library,Kennabres, Irabeth, War Table, War Council, Grey Garrison, Wardstone, World Wound, Golarian, Mendev, Abyssal Corruption, demonology, Absolum, acolyte, Vrock, Kyato, Defender’s Heart, Iomedae, Captain Caleb Zazabel, cultist, heretic, spy, Arelu, Sarkoris, Quindius Orlendu, books, Gueno Pollen, Avastan, Zanther Fane, Black Fire Adepts, Worm that Walks, Legendary, Tar-Baphon, chasm, Terendelev, Defender of Kennabres, Temple of Iomedae, Father Lorian, Neophytes, Keen Edge of Truth, Asmodeus, Ruff Ruff, Nahadrian Crystals, Deskari, Midnight Bolt, 


Nolkeria is here too.

Aravashneal- famous demonologist, potential rift warden; wants us to help him get back to the Blackwing Library. Blinded during the attack on Kennabres
Blackwing Library- has sources of great demonic knowledge.
Irabeth- convenes war table; she is getting confident to attack Grey Garrison at any point. She says we’ll need to decide what to do with the Wardstone. There is a tip of it left and we can’t let if fall into the hands of the demons. We can’t let them figure out how to disable or reverse it or accelerate the power of the World Wound, that could be the end of Kennabres and maybe Golarian. We called to Mendev for aid. She’ll continue to build defenses until we’re ready to strike.

Sybil- has her sextant so now she could learn how to do the ritual to keep Abyssal Corruption at bay.

Blackwing Library- famous library in the city that has biggest collection of books on demonology in the city or anywhere. Rivals that of Absolum’s collection. Scholars and hunters across Mendev come here to study to figure out how to deal with creatures from the Abyss. It’s full name is Librarium of the Broken Blackwing. 

Aravashneal- “Many secrets are held in that library. Some I am not willing to tell you just yet; but here’s what I can tell you. I had many acolytes there. Many who have been studying demonology for years. They are no doubt going to be the target of some type of attack if they haven’t already. I worry that if the knowledge that is contained in our halls is stolen from us or our acolytes have been killed then who knows what untold horrors will come against us that we have no defense against. Now the library itself, I can describe where it’s at. I can tell you a little bit about the history of the library by stating what it’s real name is in regards to. It’s called Blackwing because there’s a giant black vrock wing mounted outside to the library's facade.”

Vrock- horrifying looking creature, demon that has large vulture like wings. Long limbs, it’s a vulture demon thing. It is absolutely terrifying. Many who’s seen one before immediately gets stunned by it’s screech and then have an infestation start to work just from the sound waves from these vrocks to sap your strength. These demons are absolutely horrifying. Apparently, one of the Rift Wardens were able to slay one and pull the wing off (400lb, 8 foot long wing of this demon) and mounted it to this library and that is why it’s called Blackwing Library.

Aravashneal tells us the layout of the Blackwing Library:
	Atrium at the beginning and then rows and rows and rows of books. Little acloves around it. Kings have used it as repositories. Grand wizards have stored secret knowledges when they had back archives. Standard over powered library that could teach us a lot if we stayed there and studied. South of the city, almost where the cultist maze kicked us out at. We only know it was in the attack, we don’t know what condition it was in.
	He wants us to gather what books and acolytes we can to help in the defense of Kennabres. He thinks we could restore the wardstone if we have some of these books in there.

Kyato will teach the ritual. Any time we want to stay somewhere that isn’t in Defender’s Heart, then we do the ritual to try to keep off Abyssal corruption. It will either keep it away or welcome it in twice as fast (can Kyato write? It’s looks like a 4 year olds).

Takes a few hour. Unnerving that the buildings around it are undamaged but the library definitely is damaged.
Massive demon stepped on and made a gash in the building like they did it on purpose. The Blackwing has been removed from the area but Arvashneal still recognizes it. 90% of the library has been destroyed. Initial vestibule seems to be in tact. 

Someone is piling books up inside.

5 figures bound and gagged on a pile of books. 2 tieflings stacking books frantically. Everything is thrown everywhere. Man also inside that is clearly distressed and broken. Looks like maybe a paladin of Iomedae. He is giving orders saying, “Please, we don’t have much time. Etc.” He’s bloody and seen some things.

Captain Caleb Zazabel and his men. About to burn these vile backstabbers and heretics who these demons came by and cast illusion spells on all of us. His compatriots were turned into what looks like these tieflings. These are the true demons that cast some disguise on themselves to make them look like the scholars. They’re pathetic. They snuck in here and are stealing the secrets of this great library. 
	He seems very genuine and ragged.
	He recognizes Aravashneal. And the scholars are writhing in his direction.
	He promises Aravashneal that the demons took everything valuable even though he didn’t see it himself. These traitors told him everything when he used his fists.

Aravashneal doesn’t know if these are his acolytes (he’s blind….) but they feel like it and it’s the smell of his library. Without his vision he can’t tell anything….

Caleb- “I need you to look around you, my lord. I appreciate your spouting would be true in peacetime or at least in non normal circumstances; but the city is burning right now and there have already been so many innocent lives lost all because of abominations like these some of these cultists, these heretics, these spies, slipping into our ranks. Carrying out orders from their brutal masters and preparing a heinous death for us all. They want us to give over to the demons, just like Arelu did with Sarkoris. They deserve to feel the flames licking at their legs. It’s just like Iomedae says, either by sword or by fire.”

Sybil detects magic and does not detect any magic on anyone in the room. We try to convince him not to burn them.

Caleb- I can appreciate your lose morals, but my god cannot allow this to stand. Men, throw the torches.

The tieflings go to throw the torches.

Tiefling, Caleb, fire fight.

Rift Wardens can counter summon as an immediate action. Whenever someone uses a summon monster spell or spell like ability; you can begin a casting of your own summon monster.

Malort remembers he has fire resistance as he rolls on a fire…..

Sybil throws someone into a chasm into nothing.

Librarians weren’t able to save much because the demons took off with most of the books. But they are hopeful what they still had could be of use. Librarians were not able to find the secret Arvashneal asked them to find but with the whole building destroyed it might be a moot point. Aravashneal is just happy they’re ok. These librarians are his acolytes.

	Number of magical items around here.
	Malort finds a secret door. Is this group worthy of the Rift Wardens? Room is radiating magic. Sybil can read the runes floating in the air. 2 statues: Quindius Orlendu founded the library 30 years ago; doesn’t know who the others are but they are wearing the regalia of the Rift Wardens. One chest is opened and emptied, but the other chest has some stuff in it. Quarter Staff (powerful magic; Quarter Staff of Coercion) and book (Gueno Pollen wrote it “Notes from my travels in Northern Avastan” gives permanent boon on natural attacks (+1)) in it. Gueno Pollen is the other statue.
	Arvashneal is happy to teach Sybil of the Rift Wardens and says there is no hint of the Abyss in her. But… he’s still super racist against tieflings. He explains what Rift Wardens are and what they do; it’s a secret rank though so we can’t tell you about it….

	Scroll of Dimensional Lock (8th level spell); Spellbook (worth 700 gold)

	Find remnants of a worm that walks in the library (a legendary creature). Aravashneal “Perhaps it is the remains of Zanther Fain. He was a leader of the regents Black Fire Adepts. I can’t believe any piece of him is still here, no wonder the demons have been able to thwart our attempts. He’s had spies in our own library. You should destroy these and toss them into the crevice.”

	Sybil asks if that is a sufficient way to get rid of these things.

	Arvashneal replies saying we don’t know a powerful enough magic to destroy a worm that walks. A spell caster like that would rival Tar-Baphon himself. He suggested throwing it into the Abyss so at least it won’t hear anything of use. 

The Worm that Walks tries to convince Sybil to keep him. Zanther Fane says it’s not the last time we’ll hear from him. Sybil tosses it into the Abyss.

Terendelev, Defender of Kennabres (+1 moral bonus to AC against dragons); Temple of Iomedae, Father Lorian’s Guide to Neophytes (+1 shield bonus to AC against demons); Keen Edge of Truth: Recollections and Admonitions for Asmodeus (+1 competence bonus to AC against swarms)

Aravashneal’s friends taken him back.

	Find Ruff Ruff (small wolf) at the Jamba Juice stand. There is a bolt sticking out of this wolf (in the bottom), it has tons of magical energy. Can “Pierce Deskari’s hide”; thought it was a plot device. Made of Nahadrian Crystals. Can be shot from bow or crossbow. 50 points of damage that can’t miss and can’t be mitigated in any way. Midnight Bolt. Only one unless we need another animal companion….

Armed guards shout that Defender’s Heart is under attack.


16 Early Gwerm Gets the Burn Horgus Gwerm, Kennabres, Nolkeria, Knights, Iomedae, Serenrae, Torag, Cambion, Darian Witt, Oziel, Oziel’s sister, Nysserian Manor, Fine Fittings, Abercandalu, Belfas Lumus, Mira Lumus, sextant, Desna, Defender’s Heart, 

Gwerm wants to secure war funds for Kennabres.
At Gwerm estate. “Rock” falls on Malort.
Nolkaria falls into the estate; jk, it’s just a spirit. 
Balcony overlooks kitchen.
Statues of great heroes of Kennabres/crusades. Knights of Iomedae, Serenrae, Torag, and others each with own shinning emblems.

3 Cambion Demons fight in libraryish room?
Malort pulls a funny candle stick and opens one switch.

More Cambion Demons fight in bedroom.

We call for Gwerm with lanterns.

Gwerm unlocks storage room secret door. Gwerm is excited to see his paintings are still there. He pulls them off the wall and burns them. Pictures all look odd. Family pictures with a blonde haired boy in Gwerm colors that doesn’t look like Horgus. Picture of Horgus next to half elf woman and little boy that has a “striking resemblance” to someone we know (Oziel).

Gwerm- “Oh, I guess you’ve noticed. I guess there’s no point in hiding it anymore.” “See, I have two secrets. First, indeed, Oziel is my son and second, I am not the real Horgus Gwerm.” “My real name, of course, is of course Darian Witt. My parents were servants of the real Gwerms and their mansion on the eastern edge of Mendev. The Gwerms were generous and noble, but short sighted. They buried most of their fortune on charity when they should have taken better care in guarding their mansion. When I was ten or so, I used to play in the garden with the real Horgus who just my age. I had no idea where the demons came from; but the real Horgus ran into the mansion and I bolted in the opposite direction. He was captured and killed and I wasn’t.” “Crusaders came from the nearest city to aid us, but I was the only one who survived. They asked me my name and I said I was Horgus Gwerm. That’s the whole story.”

OZIEL HAS KNOWN THE WHOLE TIME THIS DICK IS HIS DAD. Just not something he wanted to bring up…. Omar didn’t know though and plays it off well because Oziel didn’t know who to trust.

“Yes, I will go ahead and say what you’re all thinking. No, he is not my biological son. He is illegitimate if you will. You see, he has resided in this house since birth. The staff though he was a nephew or a son of a friend who died in the crusades. I never disabused(?) them of their notions. Of course, his mother, Iris, was a halfelf of humble origins. She worked in the gardens here and I wanted to unite the Gwerm family with another noble line. The Gwerm name could not be permitted to mix with commoners and therefore plunge into insignificance, of course. But, Iris did not protest and we successfully hid our connection. And as Oziel was born, I did not claim him as my own. As far as Mendev knows. Oziel is the son of a Gwerm family servant who died 10 years ago.”

Oziel graciously lets us keep his own items. 

Gwerm- “Before you start telling your friends what a terrible father I am, I want to tell you something. Oziel wanted for nothing. Just like this, he’s able to take the gifts that we have and use them for the best purposes around. He had the best teachers. Bought him the best books, he always ate well, he had warm clothes. He became quiet astute on what to do in social situations. Even learned to brew his own potions to heal himself. He became quiet the botanist if you ask me. Isn’t that what a good parent does? Encourage their children? The things in this house are just things. I know that sounds odd coming from me, a Gwerm, but trust me it can be replaced. But the family’s lineage, it cannot.”

Gwerm- “Honeslty, I’m surprised you thought I was going to hurt people or something; but no, I’m not a Gwerm. The vast fortune of the Gwerms had no rightful heirs and if it didn’t have any heirs it would have transferred their ownership into some other hands. It would have prevented me from doing a lot of the good that I did and it is certainly difficult for me to speak openly about these secrets I have kept all these years. It’s almost as if I’ve been hostage to them my entire life as strange as that sounds. You know, oddly enough when I was a boy, I used to hate Horgus, the condosention of him most of all, the pity on his face. His smile when he called me to join in on his games. The only difference between us was our birthright and I felt that was unfair. Envy clouded my mind. The demons did kill him and not me. I thought for a moment it was a gift of fate. Seized my good fortune with both hands and never let it go. Unfortunately it took many years before I understood that generosity behind the condesention I felt was compassion. I discovered far to late that Horgus really was my best friend. Even if I didn’t feel his friendship myself at the time. I still feel I should have been a better one for him. Well, what can I do now, right? Reveal the truth? Reject his name and allow it to sink into oblivion? Would you want your friends to do that? No, I am going to bear the name Horgus Gwerm with the pride and dignity it deserves. Banner on the battlefield as it were, multiply its merits. The Gwerm family will not be forgotten. I suppose in that way, I still serve Horgus Gwerm.”

Oziel says Horgus would be proud and Oziel hopes to make Darian Witt/Horgus proud one day.

Horgus says Oziel has made him proud and he can tell Oziel enjoys fighting demons.

Horgus asks Oziel if he wants to keep going with these folks because he can keep Oziel safe, even with the house destroyed and the servants scattered and dead. I don’t know if I can follow you to the ends of the earth to seek the glory you are after.

Oziel- “Ever sense, my sight was taken from me and I failed time and time again to heal them of these potions, I have searched for a purpose. And I feel that I have found my calling. This is what I must do must do with these gifts. It is not the path I have chosen. It is the path that has chosen me.”
Horgus/Darian pays us and wants us to let him burn the portraits so no one can discover these portraits. “Hopefully the bonfire doesn’t bring up any to terrible memories for you. Never did find out what happened to your sister that night, but some day perhaps.”

Horgus implies Oziel couldn’t be raised as a Gwerm because there would be to many questions.

The chest has a robe in it that is the last thing Darian remembers his father having and wearing. We decide Oziel should have it.

Oziel says he will try to build a legacy of them as well.

Horgus asks us to defend Oziel and keep him safe.

Going to Nysserian Manor. Demons destroy things important to us and them as well.
Little remains there, nothing seems to be there.

Fine Fittings- small shop that has been there a long time; tailor shop, Belfas s
Abercandelu- deformed horn hunchback type demons, bat like features to head, love to destroy beautiful things (paintings, books, statues) love to vandalize art, only thing it hates more than beautiful things is it’s own reflection. So it avoids mirrors at all costs. Used as shock troops. Excellent grunts because they require no weapons or armor. Already big wrecking balls of their own demise. Typical demonic features. Pension for improvised weapons. Special Abilities- Destructive attack- natural attacks can threaten and confirm critical hits against objects; get big bonus to breaking objects; Mutilation- bite is horrific and can mar someone permanently, fortitude save or take big hit to charisma for some time; hatred of mirrors, if you have one +5 to intimidate checks against it; best save- fortitude save

Abercandalu fight. (can do bite and 2 claws); will save is worst save; an do something to cause fear

We find a trap door and find Mira Lumus inside.

She implies Sybil looks familiar. Sybil says there is supposed to be something there her parents had. 
Mira- “Your parents, your parents. Oh! Of course, you’re Remiel’s child! Ah yes, Hopefully they haven’t destroyed it. Hold on.”
She goes to a cabinet and pulls out a small sextant made of gold engraved with a symbol of Desna.
Mira- “Your father was a wonderful Desnan priest. I don’t really know what happened to him. I never quite met your mother but he was a remarkable man, always helping those in need. I swear that man could have converted a demon with his ways. Always said with this sextant we would always find our way. Seems it’s found delivered it’s way to your hand. Maybe it is best if it is yours.”
Sybil is excited.
Mira- “It does seem to suit you, a very meaningful object to a very meaningful deity. Hopefully, it leads you to answers that you are seeking.

We take her back to Defender’s Heart. Mira brings potatoes with her.

10 hours to get back.

The couple is reunited. We tell Irabeth about Nyrossian Manor. We complete Spies within our ranks.


15 One Bad Apple Topaz Solutions, Bahaphomet, 6 armed many armed snakelike woman with swords, Mandragora, Iomedae, Malius root Paste poison, Serenrae, Zoren, Prelit Hulrun, Private Claura, Condemned, Staunton, Kyato, Irabeth, Nerosian, Queen Galfrey, Ustalav, Cheliax, Chateau Starstone, Sargava, Chateau di Prelit, Order of the Rack, Red Revolution, 4669 AR, Andoran, Gald, Cambion, Abyss, incubus, Golarian, Taldor, Absolum, Ossia, Mwangi Expanse, Gwerm, last wall

Topaz Solutions (herb and alchemical item shop) find in basement- wooden table with clockwork toy with 6 armed snakelike women holding a sword in each hand (shape of a demon, but we don’t know the type); tightly corked bottle sits before the statue, wood chest covered with engraved ruins, sinister image of a star surrounding a goats face was covering the wall by the table (symbol of bahapopomet ;
Get close to the stuff and here- “Ah, I hope you are among Iodmade’s slaves. I would hate to think the mere peasants wasting such a personal greeting of lord baphapomet.” and we hearing a ticking sound from the stuff and the bottle explodes with electricity.

Combat begins with a mandragora. Rises spontaneously from the mandrake root that draws nutrition from the corpse or igor of a demon. 3 feet tall 30 lbs. Has great strength and brutality when it attacks; grows extra vines. Stays away from people but will aggressively attack whoever wakes it up. Plant so has plant immunities. Vulnerable to supernatural darkness. Resistance 5 acid and cold; resistance 10 electricity; once per day can unleash a shriek that may nausate a foe; when it slams into someone the spikes/thorns have a poison that is odd. No save to cure against the poison, but it effects you with confusion and fatigue and you cure it by rolling “act normally” on the confusion table. 

Chest- find holy symbols of Iomedae with a note. Note says- “We don’t need these anymore but figured if you survived our surprise it would just be plain rude to leave an empty chest behind for your troubles.” -T

Things covered in Malius root paste- fast acting contact poison that saps dex for awhile.

This cleared out the 2nd of 3 cultists dens.

Go to Serenrae shrine. Serenrae is a major crusading deity; this area is still in tact.

Seen of people standing over the sacrificial altar.
Crusaders wearing the armor of Iomedae or Serenrae and have completely tied up a tiefling who is wearing rags and showing his scars. Tiefling is kneeling and placidly watching the people around him argue. Maybe he doesn’t sense the looming threat around him or maybe he’s given in all together. As we look up, we see a black crow flying in adgitated circles above this scene.
1st Crusader- “Make it quick, he won’t feel a thing.”
2nd- “I don’t know, can we really do this?”
3rd- “Listen, we don’t have a choice, there are demons everywhere. What else would you have us do?”
1st- draws great sword. “In Serenrae’s name, we’re so sorry boy, but it is our duty, we have to do this. Not for our sake but for the sake of everyone that can still be saved from the demons. If we don’t win this battle we won’t have long to live anyway.” He brings his sword above the tieflings head.
We approach.
Oziel- “Knights, what do we have here?”
One of the other knight’s hands are shaking.
Tiefling looks up and Malort recognises Zoren, Malort’s childhood friend that took him in with his wife and 7 kids and took care of him. Malort learned much of his tiefling heritage from being taken in by this family. Zoren is shocked when he recognizes Malort.
Zoren addresses the crusaders around him- “I understand, you’re scared, you feel powerless. You think that this will help. You don’t have to justify yourselves to me. Just do what you decided to do.”
1st looks at Oziel- “Our weapons are barely scratching these demon hides. If we sacrifice this boy to Serenrae, we can consecrate these weapons in his innocent blood and gain the power to destroy the Abyss. It is extremely, I’ll give you that. But we have no other choice.”
Oziel agrees this is extreme and asks what Zoren has done to receive this fate.
1st- “Nothing, nothing at all. That’s the point. Only the blood of an innocent will give our swords the power to cut through demon hide, right?”
Oziel- Who has told you this?
“That’s a good point, who has told us this?”
1st- “I think it was yours.”
And they argue.
Zoren- “Please don’t fight. All of you are good people. Good defenders of the city. You just made a mistake.” looks at Malort. “Please don’t hurt them.”
Malort wants to hate them, but it seems like an honest mistake. Zoren is ready to die, his life as a tiefling isn’t worth it and he’s given in. Malort and Oziel pull Zoren off the altar and Oziel chastizes the crusaders.  
“If we’re going to lose to these demons won’t we all just die anyway? You can see how it’s an honest mistake. We just had bad information.”
Malort and Zoren walk away.
Oziel- isn’t a fan of tieflings, but there are laws.
Private Claura- Prelit Hulrun’s battalions; he used to do things like this. Implies Oziel has been part of this. Just trying to follow example of superiors.
Oziel sends him to Defender’s Heart.
Sarenrae does not sacrifice people.
Yaniel sacrificed herself to save a bunch of people, but that’s different.
Sacrificing people is not a way to imbue weapons to cut through demon hide. If anything, this sounds like propaganda demons would spread so crusaders would kill innocent people. 
Sybil mostly stays out of this.

Malort and Zoren
Zoren- “Thank you, I never really thought I’d be saved from the little boy that came to us when Old Gramps (Grumps) died. You know, if I didn’t already have 7 tiefling children, I probably would have counted you as number 8.”
Malort implies Zoren needs to take care of the kids and others he finds.
Zoren- “They’re all gone, Malort.” “I do know that. I watched the demons literally rip them apart as if it was some type of game. The children were devoured or used in some type of sick puppet show. My wife meant to walk. One of them tried to stuff them back into my wife and said, ‘look how stupid it is.’ they all died, they all died in an awful way.”
Malort denies it.
Zoren- “Malort, it’s not the same with you. Old Grumps and McKala, they could still be out there. I watched them die. I’m never going to unsee that. This is not like the time we got jumped and then we could fight our way back. This is the end. I have nothing to live for. I have no reason to keep going.”
Malort denies that and implies tieflings need to stick together.
Zoren puts hand on Malort’s shoulder- “I suppose I did alright by you. Tieflings after all are always looking for someone to guide. I can’t promise I will have a life. I don’t think I’m ever going to recover from this. I still hear their screams every time I close my eyes; but if you, Malort, if you still think I’m useful, just tell me where to go. If nothing else, I need to make sure you survive. Long enough to find Old Grumps if nothing else.”
Malort says Zoren taught him everyone has value. Malort says Zoren can go to Defender’s Heart.
Zoren- “I hope you never know this pain, Malort. But for you I’ll stay strong a little while longer.
Malort awkwardly asks for Zoren to stay with us either going into battle or to take him to Defender’s Heart.
Zoren thought someone was going to die today and was surprised everyone 
Oziel- “If there’s one thing I learned in my prayers or my study of the 5 paragons of law is that tieflings can be either demonspawns or hellspawns. I believe one of those to be a little bit better than the others. Until I know what each tiefling is made up of or what they follow then it is not my place to judge. And so I like you and respect you and the fact you are all here with us, fighting the same battle means a lot.”
Sybil mentions she’s seen acts of cruelty from every race in this city.
Sybil and Oziel have a discussion about racism.
Zoren wants to win our trust one day. Zoren implies Malort is stupid and brash, has a good heart. Won’t find a better companion this side of Nariosian. Hears Staunton’s name “this is to much redemption for one day.”
Zoren- “Wait, what do you mean you’ve fought with him before, Malort?”... “You were in the Condemned?” Zoren had no idea. “You just disappeared one day. I thought you just left town. I didn’t know. You’re lucky you weren’t burned at the stake with Prelit Hulrun.”... “Small miracles, I really thought we were going to die today.”

Market Square was ground zero of the attack.

Ged grew up in a place when it was just him and his dad so you don’t get some of the baggage that comes with the cities.

Go back to Defender’s Heart.

Oziel reports the Serenrae Shrine and Topaz Solutions incident to Irabeth.

Tells us to go to Assyrian manor. Kyato heals us. Malort asks Staunton to watch after Zoren.
Staunton- “I suppose I can watch after another one of you horny fellows.” Malort implies someone trust worthy should watch him. “I guess that rules me out.” Staunton chuckles. Says he’ll try and keep Zoren safe from maiming and death. 

Kyato- needs a symbol that’s meaningful to us. Place a symbol on the altar and say a prayer. Not a strong enough emotion with the holy symbols. He hopes we’re going somewhere to make the World Wound a safer place.

We’ll take Gwerm to his estate. He specifically wants Oziel to come with us.
Oziel- “Gwerm is certainly an acquired taste.”

When we get to the top floor we are supposed to go to the secret study and light some lanterns when it’s safe.
“I don’t have to tell you, but they are certainly valuable to me.” meaning his items.

Sybil reads notes about shipments of weapons going from Nerosian to Queen Galfrey’s guard. Another one going to Last Wall to supply the knights there. Food going down to Ustalav in exchange for rare medicines. Everything seems on the up and up.

Gwerm’s paperwork shows an obsessive need to show everything is on the up and up.

Wine with Chelaxian vintage. Chataue Starstone, southern region of Sagrava. Aged for 20 years. Next Chatou di Prelit with the Order of the Rack on it- handsquashed by a legion of hellknights; Red Revolution- 4669AR Rebellion when Andoran and Gald rebelled against Cheliax and this was the wine made to celebrate their victory.
Rebellion- Ged knows there were no trolls in that rebellion. 

Cambion fight- red skinned, black horns, forked tongue; incubus procreates with a human in the Abyss, much like a tiefling but rather than the maternal parent staying on the material plane; they stay in the Abyss during the whole pregenancy; gestating on the Abyssal energy; not just a half demon that is born, but a humanoid demon; true outsiders, most have fiendish aspects all around, carries a capacity for a deadly sin that gives them a bonus in combat. Immune to electricity and poison; resist 10 acid, cold, and fire, Spell resistance SR 10

Trade maps go throughout Golarian. Main artery through Nerosian; routes down to Taldor, over to Absolum, over to Ossirian, even far into the Mawangi Expanse. Gold values and Gwerms trade partners are listed.


14 Out to Ged You Abyssal Corruption, demonic temptation, Nabbasu, Targona, Belthus Lumus, Johran, Desna, Erastil, sextant, Oziel, Jacker, Mongrael, hellknight, Order of the God Claw, Kennabres, Staunton, Drezen, Tian Xi, Mendev, Queen Galfrey, Defender’s Heart, Grey Garrison, Taldor, Garund, Arelu Vorlesh, Old Sarkoris, Minago, Condemned, Torag, Mongrael, Topaz Solutions, multiple arms and blades

Abyssal Corruption- if you stay in areas that are consecrated, you can stave it back a little bit
Oziel’s real question:
When Oziel and Sybil gave into a little bit of the demonic temptations to the Nabbasu and not sure how that’s impacted them yet. When we spoke to the Targona statue/image she picked up on a slight corruption on them. Otherwise unknown and unaffected.

Belthus Lumus offered a small sextant that belonged to Sybil’s father.
Johran said he said he needs a sextant for Desna to teach Sybil because he knows the ritual for Erastil, but since Sybil doesn’t worship Erastil, he will try and change it to something she’d be more inclined to worship.

Oziel goes to Kyato and asks him to cast speak with dead on skull we found underground.
Skull- “Oh, free at last.” same voice calling to him in Mongrael area comes from the skull. Ged and Kyato hear nothing.
Skull- “I thought I was going to be flattened like a pancake under that rubble, much obliged. Damn, I’m not in any pain, but my head is a bit foggy for some reason…. My name is Jacker, I’m a hellknight. Is there anything I can do to help you? After all, you did get me out of a bind.” “Order of the Godclaw of course. What else would I be? Why choose one god when you can choose all the gods. I mean, only a stupid person would choose one god, I mean look at this guy…..” Oziel follows the Godclaw and asks what he was doing down in the maze.
Skull- “I’m not dead, I get this a lot. Many people think I’m dead because I speak to the dead. It gets confusing, I know. I don’t think you’re dead yet. The dead usually get a glow to them. I can usually tell when someone is dead, but trust me buddy. You and I, very much alive. But down there, I was just scouting mostly. I was just hanging around in Kennabres until I needed to go on a mission again, I was a little board out of my mind to be honest, but I guess hanging around in your pocket has been way better than just hanging around in that torture chamber just waiting for someone to come get tortured. I mean, really like why was I waiting in a torture chamber, it just doesn’t make sense.’
Oziel- was there a reason you called to me?
Skull- “Yeah, totally. I sensed you come down. I’m a bit of a spiritualist, but with a twist. It means that a spirit took a liking to me at some point and it means I can just turn into things as I need to. Usually armor and stuff because, let’s face it, armor is way cooler than weapons. You came in and had this armor set on you and I think it called to me, it was like a hellknight half plate that was the cool part and I was like hey, this guy is probably a hellknight, should probably get to know you and have a few beers. That type of thing, but I needed you to come and find me first. And generally, when people come to torture chambers, they’re not all bright eyed and bushy tailed. But you seemed alright.”
Oziel- I guess I could keep you. Is there an easier way to speak to you?
Skull- “I’ll use my little special power. Some people call me a spirit speaker. I’m really good at communing with the spirits. You know what I think would be the best idea? You just tell me what piece of armor you want me to be. I’ll just become that and you can talk to me then. Just yours and my secret, and if there’s anything you need like if there’s demons in Kennabres, I will be there to help kill them off; particularly if they just seem like they’re a little bit off and horny. You could use a friend if you know what I mean.”
Skull- You can become a hellknight if you want to.
Oziel- Can you take a form of a mask?
Skull- I’m happy to be a mask. (Warrior’s spirit is in the skull/signifier’s mask. Jacker can summon any warrior’s spirit you want into your mask. While wearing him, you can choose if he becomes +1 deflection bonus, +1 armor bonus, +1 bonus to natural armor, +1 resistance bonus to saves, or +1 enhancement bonus to any 1 ability score to each day)

Oziel doesn’t acknowledge that Kyato did the spell correctly.

Defender’s Heart has been an inn for a long time. It’s currently ready for a siege if needed.

Staunton, when he sits down people go to the other side of the room, “Well, you know how it goes it isn’t so bad. But it isn’t like I’m a young dwarf anymore.” He seems like a citadel, one who is holding fast, but the windows show he’s all but dead inside.
Staunton- “I’m pretty glad you guys were at the Grey Garrison. Pretty good work, even if I did have to drag you out.”
Oziel asks how we made it out.
Staunton- “Well, it’s not to much of a complicated thing. I drug you out. Most of you had passed out to the wenches whims. She has this thing where she invades your brain and takes over. Unfortunately, I know it all to well, it makes me resistant to it. Weather she’s toying with me or not, I was at least able to get you out of there. She seemed more intrigued with corrupting the Wardstone than killing what she believed to be just a few random crusaders.”
Oziel- What’s your history with her.
Staunton- sullen and glares “It is a long story… I’m a bit of a traitor, at least that’s what they say. Almost as bad as Arelu Vorlesh. That I’m a disgrace among the ranks of these Condemned. Galfrey, the Queen never have spared me. I belong in the gallows and if my history with her has a lot to do with it. I take it you really don’t know what happened.”
Staunton- “I’m the reason crusade forces are holed up in the edges of the World Wound rather than bringing the fight to the demons. We used to have a foothold in the wound, a mighty unasailable city of Drezen, we used to have it until it fell, all because of my stupidity. I gave the enemy our main citadel. That’s why I was tried. They wanted to execute me and rightly so. But the Queen intervened, she said I could fight in order to undo what I had done. So that’s how I live now, decade after decade fighting in the Condemend. As you can see, I’ve fixed nothing and I’ve earned no forgiveness. Most people spit in my face and frankly, it wouldn’t surprise me if you wanted to as well. But I suppose the full story, I supposed I could tell you one more time, after all I’ve told it a dozen times already. One more probably won’t kill me.”

Staunton- “Drezen was built after the first crusade when it seemed like victory was ours and ours for the taking and the demon invasion would soon be at an end. But the population of old sarkoris was thoroughly diminished and many of them hoped to see their fighting repaid with a small plot of unclaimed land. Drezen was built on a fortress on top of all of our hopes and on Mendev’s ambitions. Although, you’re not supposed to say that part out loud. For what a city that it was, you can’t imagine. It was built by the finest engineers in the five king’s mountains. Queen Galfrey spared no expense. Drezen was meant to be the capital of the crusade movement, a monument to its glory and a beacon of hope for all of Golarian. Heroes were drawn there to seek fame and glory they came from all over. Taldor, Garund, Tian Xia, I couldn’t list them all. A relic of the finest type, known as the sword of valor was kept there. This banner had been carried into battle by Iomedae herself back when she was still human. The banner protected the city and kept hte demons from teleporting inside it’s walls. As long as that banner was in its place, Drezen was invincible. So we thought. But when the World Wound suddenly expanded, the demons launched a new onslaught and folks started saying it was time to declare the second crusade. Drezen was unasilable until one young officer was tempted by a beautiful woman. She convinced him the banner shouldn’t be hanging in the city and its rightful place was on the battlefield. She whispered honeyed words about glory and valor and convinced him that he could be a great hero, almost as great as Iomedae herself, and the poor fool believed her. He rounded up some of his hot headed friends and carried the banner outside the city gates on an unauthorized foray. The demons slaughtered them within seconds, but for some reason the courageous ring leader was spared. A whole army teleported into Drezen. It was a bloodbath. As you can guess, the officer was me. The woman who turned out to be a demon wasn’t just any demon, it was Minago. That foul wench. She’s given us a lot of grief in Kennabres too. Just don’t ask me what I was doing having my brother go around with me and having trists with that beast. I feel like I have failed him as well. Who could have guessed it would end like this? I blame myself every day looking into the plight. That is my story. I’ve done 80 years in the Condemned, trying to right my wrongs that I did that day. Hopefully that doesn’t surprise you do much.”

Staunton- “Commander Tirade seems to be about the only person in this whole army that remembers that I’m a soldier, not a drudge. She’s got no qualms about taking me into a battle at least. She’s had some mud flung her way in the past. I can tell most of your crew has as well. So, I’m glad you’ve kept an open mind about people. It’s no surprise you’re keeping us together in the face of this farce.”
Do you like fighting in the condemned
Staunton- “I suppose it’s a little better than being executed, right? Nothings fixed, I’ve earned no one’s forgiveness. But I suppose I shouldn’t have survived as long as I did. Stripped of my rank it feels like the Condemned was the only way I could be useful at least just for a little bit.
Does Minago have power over you?
Staunton- “Have you been in love?” “Suffice it to say, even though you know something is bad for you, sometimes there are things that creep into your mind and you have to ask yourself. Am I any better than I was back then? I want to say the answer is yes, but I’ll be honest, I’ve prayed to Torag every single day. And every single day for 80 years, I’ve gone to his priests and knelt before his altar and never once did the father of dwarven kind answer my prayer. Not to restore what I’ve lost, mind you but just to tell me, I’m still one of his children. It seems like he, just like everyone else, doesn’t give a damn about me. What can I expect from mere mortals when my own god doesn’t think I deserve redemption. That’s the kind of thing I thought about when I saw Minago again. Is it still in me? Perhaps I don’t deserve redemption.”

Staunton- “Eighty years is a long time regardless of what race you are, even elves rarely find 80 years to be a bearable amount of time. I’m just doing what I can to survive in hopes that one day Torag just says, ok, I recognize you’re still one of us.”

Oziel- I don’t understand why you did what you did, but I respect what you’re doing to right your wrongs, and don’t give up on your faith. Gives him the knotted gold ring we found in the altar to Torag in the Mongrael area.

Staunton- pockets it and pulls down visor because it’s “going to rain today.”

Went to Topaz Solutions.

Fighting looters.

Find downstairs: perfume smell; large table with statute with multiple arms and many blades, chest under the table; cloth on with summoning circle and bottle, statue of baphapomet in the corner.


13 Dude, Where’s My Keys Baphomet, Faxon, Kennabres, Terendelev, Zacharious, Lost Chapel, siege, Iomedae, Bathius Zacrockia, Yacker, Order of the Gate, Hellknight, Nerosian, Ivory Labyrinth, Defender’s Heart, Teledon, Terendelev, Raellas, Paralictor, Lutenient, Wand of Zacharious, Raellas, Lost Chapel, Drezen, Regalia of Queen Galfrey, Linorms, lord Kyato, Erastil, Old Deadeye, chilly creek, Mendev, Kyato, Chilly Creek, Selen River, Abyssal Corruption, Sarenrae, Desna, Jorhan, war council, Blackwing Library, Cayden Callion, damphnir, 

Half elf- worships Baphomet, asks if Faxon sent us. Tells us he’s been compiling valuable crusader relics
Claw from the silvery protector of Kennabres (Terendelev)
Wand of the famous mage Zacharious, seems to be a hero who lost his life in the siege of the Lost Chapel
Copper vessel with oil used to sacrifice a priest of Iomedae
Helmet belonging to Bathius Zacrockia (Yacker), perelict for the order of the gate, one of the hellknights around here, “pretty awful kind of guy if you ask me”
One of the rooms has a brazen head and a midst, every time I go in around there I get pretty talkative and open about everything
Has movement plans from around the city for the cultists, some of them he thinks they can bring over from the capital (Nerosian) and needs someone to deliver it to the Ivory Labyrinth

Curator (old geezer, Teledon) in the gallery- was tricked by cultist half elf by telling him he was a crusader

Cultists trying to figure out how to get into Defender’s Heart; they’re looking for a passcode

Teledon- the curator

Oziel kills the halfelf

Placquards- Terendelev’s claw
Raellas- Priest of Iomedae was sacrificed
Yacker- Order of the Gate, hellknights have been very involved with the crusades from the very beginning, Paralictor is a lutenient; almost at the top of the order but not like a general
Wand of Zacharious- wand of one of the famed necromancers of the crusades, very powerful, but on the side of the crusaders, had the philosophy the dead don’t tired, but the living tire and this is a war of attrition, so the more they can raise crusaders after they die, the better, while still remembered as a hero, there are still some taints to the way he approached things

Teledon- Old man points wand at rats behind him; he believes he stopped the raiders by himself- once a hero of Lost Chapel (maybe?), currently lost his keys, talks about he never lost anything but demons took a lot from his friends (and especially your keys) refuses to give us his keys, his name is Teldon the museum historian

Lost Chapel- close to Drezen, made to bolster Iomedae’s presence in the area, but we don’t know what happened beyond it was the site of a terrible execution, it seems there was an entire regiment of troops that went to the Lost Chapel, very few of them came back and the ones that did very much lost their minds in some way
Drezen- capital established in the World Wound for the 1st crusade

We try to trick Teldon to open doors with keys

This is a holy place?

Regalia of Queen Galfrey

Altars; Gargoyle head and bull head- pouring out smoke like substance, and a zone of truth spell, covering entire area

Large chest and weapon rack and the head

Altar with a summoning spell (missives)

Bullhead- Brazen Head Baphomet when mounted on the wall, sanctifies area to Baphomet and constantly pouring out vapors, evil creatures get bless spell and everyone else gets Zone of Truth

Mundane weapons and an entrapping longbow

Fine housewares, holy symbol of Iomedae, kukri, phylactery of faithfulness (broken), wand of bless weapon (15 charges), note

Immaculate Note- “Faxon, you did well to report your superiors the mishandling of funds, and I trust you will continue to serve as loyal in the weeks to come. You need not command the Kennabres Templars for long for the city is about to die. I only wish I could be there to take part in it’s murder for I have found memories of my Red Morning Massacre and my beloved Staunton. No matter I suppose, for our mortal kin will all fall soon enough, for Kennabres’s days our short. Vorlesh, already left to meet our lord’s daughter in the Abyss to secure a Nahadria crystal of the proper purity. Once she has what she needs, she will arrive at Kennabres to finish the job and turn the Wardstones fully to our use. You will know when she succeeds I suspect. Praise lord Baphapomet. -Minago

Minago- demonic ruler of the city Rascalad in the World Would
Vorlesh- Arelu Vorlesh- woman rumored to help open the World Wound in the first place
Nahendrian Crystal- someone else might be able to tell it what it is

Teledon- Slaying the Linorms and going into the Lost Chapel; Undead, let me tell you about the undead at the Lost Chapel, most of my friends died and had risen as corpses, it was awful. I had to kill them twice. I will never unsee the horrifying things that were done to my beloved friends. I did have to kill them twice. Once to save them from a terrifying curse they were calling out to be killed. And the second when they rose from the dead, I had to kill them again out of spite really. There is nothing worse, looking at the people you love and slitting their throat and taking that throat off their skull and severing it once again. It really messes you up, it really messes you up…. I never wanted to talk about it…. 

Wand of acid splash is what Teledon has.

We go to Defender’s Heart to take Teledon back and report back. We give the password and are welcomed back.

Kyato- priest taken refuge, they don’t know his true intent but we can talk to him. “Lord Kyato is by the barn” Erastil priest; older man, well worn traveling clothes, wooden symbol, sings, “servant of Erastil”, “The old Deadeye”, “chilly creeks” in the prayer; says we can help cut bandages, community drives Kennabres and all of Mendev so just donate some of your time, “I wasn’t really a part of this community, I was just passing through Kennabres, was sailing down that old man of ours, that old Selen River, I went to a village by the name of Chilly Creek, have you heard of it?”
Ged- yes, it rings a bell.
Kyato- That’s great to hear, it’s a small fishing village, not even marked on most of the maps; but people live there, but what they don’t have is a priest, no one to heal their wounds or offer their prayers to for a good catch, give their dead a dignified burial; the World Wound is only a stone’s throw from it. Though, I think I’ll be going back there and I’ll serve that community when I can, I saw a small farm that seemed to be abandoned; although Erastil was gracious enough to keep a hanging deer, an Old Buck in the barn. It seemed to be curing as if someone left it there just for me. Old Deadeye certainly works in mysterious ways.
Ged- smiles and says yes, very mysterious ways, it must be opportune we met you and your story is heartwarming to me, I thank you for sharing it.
Kyato- Well, I won’t lie, I’m quite afraid to be here; but what can I do? These villagers need people, right? Each and every one of their days….I’m glad I can be here.
Ged- Erastil is growing deep roots and defending your home. In times like these, who’s to say where your home is?
Kyato- That’s why I’m excited to see how Chilly Creek is. Once we’ve held Kennabres I think I’ll be going there and by the grace of the good gods, we’ll survive this and you should come and visit me; you’ll find the village here (circles it on map), you should be able to find it here on the bank of the river.
Ged- we’ll see each other there, I guarantee it.
Kyato- Sybil seems to be shimmering with some sort of magic; are you a scholar? “I don’t know if you’ve noticed this, but the area around here, it seems to repel some of that feeling of dread and uncertainty in our dreams. I believe I’ve heard the crusaders call it Abyssal Corruption. You see, I brought a small altar here. I’ve sanctified it. I’ve used a certain ritual, it takes a little bit of learning and a little bit of knowledge on how to do this sanctification by hand without the magics of a god behind it, but you can use it to set up a kind of makeshift area to temporarily push back or dampen the effects when you’re out traveling. I can teach you if you have some time.”

Sybil agrees

Kyato- “I do need something. It seems like perhaps, it seems like there’s a small sextant or something that I might be able to use. You see like there’s small little pieces to one of the crusader gods. And I believe this particular altar was for Erastil, but there could be others. Desna for example. If you could bring me one of those, I could show you how to use it to ward off some of the corruption.”

Kyato- “Perhaps if you could find a scimitar of Sarenrae or shield of Iomedae; any real type of holy relic would do.” “Item becomes stationary.”

Ged wants Phylactary of Faithfulness restored.

Kyato- “I’ve seen these, I can’t quite fix these. I only sell a few trinkets and scrolls and spell casting things. Have you talked to Staunton’s brother Johran. He seems to be a smith of sorts, he might be able to repair it for you.”

Jorhan Vahne, brother of Staunton Vahne, “I promise you he’s not as bad as they say. Well, maybe he is. I don’t know. It’s not really worth arguing about. He’s my brother and none the less, I will follow him.”
Ged asks if he can fix the phylactery of faithfulness
“Sure, I can. Once he was able to make relics for great crusaders. I’m sure I can fix something here that could be of use.”
“Leave it with me. I think I can repair that after a day or so.”
Ged asks what Johran wants as payment.
“Why don’t you just look after my brother, Staunton? He doesn’t have very many friends you know, most people just tend to spit on him and try to bring him down.”
Ged implies Staunton is formidable after having fought with him.
“He’s only formidable if he’s fighting, he’s not formidable when it comes to the, I don’t know, getting along in public. Some things you just can’t wipe the stench off no matter how hard you try. It’s been 80 years now that he’s been in the Condemned. Well, it’s not really my place to speak of it, but I don’t think he’s ever going to forgive himself for what he did.”
Ged says Staunton seems discontent to this day.
“Wouldn’t you, if the entire city of Drezen fell if you decided to turn traitorous. I would imagine yes, that is a big deal of anyone to carry with them.”
Ged pointed out Staunton has been fighting against the demons and push back the darkness. We can accept his help.
Johran laughs, “You remind me of an old friend of mine. Her name was Yaniel and she said something very similar.”
Malort doing his questions about his mom.
“How do you know Yaniel? Were you raised by her? I was the one always making her arms and armor. Sometimes she would come back with them completely filled to the brink of demon blood and I’d have to figure out a way of keeping that sword shiny.”
You made Radiance?
“I did indeed, I didn’t think I would see this thing again. It seems a little worse for wear if I’m not mistaken. What have you been doing with it? It seems like it’s been stuck in a cellar underground. It seems like it could use a whetstone polishing.”
“Could I see the weapon?”
“It does look pretty good. If you have a night or something, I might be able to fully upgrade or give a little extra ooph with this sword…. I can certainly make a scabbard for you.”
Malort, what can I give you?
“Just do your job and make sure the city stays in tact. That’s probably good enough for me right now. But there may come a time when I have a forge that’s worthy of it behind me that I’ll be able to do more with it.”
Gives Malort sword scabbard.
“I might later have something for you wizardy folk. It all depends if I’m gonna stick around here or if Staunton ends up I don’t know, finally kicking the bucket from one of your damned fool missions.”
“We’re all just one bad sword stroke from death. Granted, for Staunton, that would be a mercy so perhaps that’s why the gods continue to let him fight.” …. “You watch out for that bartender, he’s a fun one.”

We go to the war council. Orc assassin after Irabeth. Give them cutlist movement plans.
Irabeth- “We’ll send this to the capital… there’s probably spies everywhere based on this list.” Reads the names. “Hmm, this one I recognize, Caleb I can’t imagine, I can’t believe he was working for them. I even sent him to go search at the Blackwing Library.”

Anevia- implies it could have been the Queen trying to kill Irabeth. 
Irabeth- “Please, don’t speak ill of the Queen, especially in this company. I have no idea who was after me. I will continue to watch my back…. Talks about selling her family’s sword to make ends meet…. It is the job of a paladin to do what’s right so let’s not talk of it again.”

Bartender- suave with milky white skin, blue veins visible, blood filled eyes, super pain, almost albino?; gold medallion engraved with a tankard around neck (Cayden Callion), damphnir; offers to get extra substances for Oziel; oddly likes Oziel; Oziel asks if there’s anyone we should look out for

Bartender- “No, I mean everyone, particularly that Staunton. He’s already had a history of terribleness. The only one I really trust in this entire building is Horgus…. Horgus is actually responsible, knows what he’s doing. Doesn’t take crap from lesser beings. Plus, he’s really good at obtaining things that are useful. So, yeah, I would trust Horgus.” … “Everyone tastes good in the right light.”.... Implies Oziel was made to be at the top of the pecking order. “That’s what Cayden Callion teaches us all.”


12 Fax On Fax Off Tower of Estrod, artifact, Angel, Iomedae, Yaniel, Radiance, Abyss, arch angel, material plane, Angel Targona, 1st crusade, Ward Stone, herald, high ranking, Nabassu, silver strong, Defender’s Heart, Bastion, crusader, Kylis, Faxon, curator, dretch, cultist, 

Tower of Estrod- massive, one known as a great museum for the city giving the history of the crusades inside but it is barely a tower anymore because it is mostly destroyed from the demon attack. Once filled with artifacts.
Murals on the walls telling a story- 4 major images in the murals
1)	“A massive angel like warrior, large shield, maybe a tower shield in one hand, sword in another, wings, haloed, although the face is obscured by a helmet…. 
2)	See an image of a paladin of Iomedae (Yaniel)  with Radience in her hand, think it’s Yaniel fighting off the hoards of the Abyss.
3)	New figure jumps out at us. But the creature is some kind of arch angel, female winged warrior with fury on her face seeming to rip the throats out of various demons. Stands out most- all on the material plain.
Thing that stands out, all of the material plane. All heralds or things that can be called to this plane. Signifies the gods don’t come to these fights, at least they haven’t in the past. But it is clear that the grace of heaven has been gracing the crusades for some amount time. 

3D image like ghost comes out at Malort as he tries to pull a picture off the wall. 

Angel Targona-who was instrumental in the 1st crusade, helped in creating the Ward Stones, this is a high ranking angel that disappeared after the 1st crusade. Some have said that the angel was taken to the Abyss itself and still could be potentially down there trapped.

Stares in face and responds to being torn off wall- “I hear the echo of menacing footsteps, I can feel the heat of an ancient, cursed rage. Oh enemy, you will not escape easily even though you try to obscure yourself. Although, Yes, you are the darkness, this lives within you and I feel you will most gladly submit to it. I can sense that you almost allow the bloodlust to blind you as you stand against a powerful demon. This confrontation took place somewhere beneath the city very deep below and I feel the echo of this reverberation within you. Yes, the world takes note of all doings, deeds, and even thoughts, noble and dark alike.” (Think she’s referring to the Nabassu and when we failed that check.- Oziel and Sybil) “I am but a memory. This place was created as a cradle of memory and fantasy. Things that belong to the city’s heroes and were kept here, come alive. People used to use this place to remember those heroes. I’m just a living memory. I can’t do anything to you; but I don’t know what you are, you do frighten me. Afterall, I am a memory of someone who spent years, centuries even fighting fearlessly the hoards of the Abyss.” “It seems that,” flickers out…”

Silver strong (wrong password)

I have new materials for the archives (they let us in with this password)

Symbol of Mendev on the floor. Lots of demons and cultists in there. 

Heated argument with some of the cultists

Close door and go up rubble.

Part of argument that Ged can hear, “looting, attack, Defender’s Heart, Bastion of the crusader resistance, Kylis, Faxon, we won’t submit to you, looking for a fight Faxon” and then see 2 dudes in the back to into combat with each other. Dude in the dragony armor a great axe and attacks another guy. All demons and cultists begin chanting “Kylis, Kylis.” “Defender’s Heart will fall” guy in red stabs guy in dragon armor. Someone gives an order. Museum Curator sends dretches into the tower?

Dretch, Cultist, and Faxon Fight

Find the curator who asks if Faxon sent us. He’s making a list.


11 A Lot to Ranseur For Shield Maze, Grey Garrison, Irabeth Tirabade, Staunton Vahne, Condemned, Wardstone, Minago, Corruption, Iomedae, Irabeth, Staunton, Anevia, Arvashneal, Horgus Gwerm, Lillitu, Lord Hulrun, Wardstone, Iomedae, World Wound, 2nd Crusade, Abyss, Harvest Festival, Mongraels, Lann, Mendev, paladin, 1st crusade, Oziel, Gwerm, Grey Garrison, Nolkeria, Bethes Lumus, Nera Lumus, Abercandalu, Tess, Desna, sextant, Tower of Estrod, Assyrian Manor, Topaz Solutions, Torag, Asmodeus, fire beetle, silver strong, Serenrae

Wartable- Irabeth, Staunton, Anevia, Arvashneal, Horgus Gwerm, 
Staunton dragged us out of the area where we passed out to Defender’s Heart.
Stunaton- “Let’s just say what you heard is true. The rumors that everyone else talks about.”
Lillitu don’t have eyes. They get in your brain.
Staunton- Doesn’t really want to talk about it, but it’s the reason he’s on the Condemned.
Lord Hulrun- can’t find him (Anevia sad about that); He was defended everyone and they haven’t been able to find him yet. That’s why Irabeth has taken command of the forces. His fate for now is uncertain.

Irabeth- “Wardstone is still there but it sounds like they’re try to desecrate it in some way. If they do they can blow up the whole barrier around the world wound. An even worse disaster for the World Wound’s expansion since the 2nd crusade. Not only Kannabres, but every city within the Ward Stone’s area would be destroyed and that includes the capital. We cannot allow that. We must retake or even destroy it if we must. Iomedae’s gift must not become a weapon of the Abyss.”

Sent reinforcements to Nerosian but have not heard back.
Been a week since the Harvest Festival.
Happy to hear they (mongraels) are coming to turn the tide.

Aravashneal- “Queen has been keeping a very close on us this entire time. She has ruled Kennabres and the rest of Mendev for the last 100 years. She is a very stout paladin of Iomedae herself, a hero in the 1st crusade.”

Gwerm wants to get something from his mansion. He also wants us to take Oziel with us.

Aravashneal wants us to check out the library.

Anevia wants us to check out Anevia and Irabeth’s house.

Irabeth- main goal is to take back the Grey Garrison, but we need to build up our forces here before we take back the Grey Garrison.

Nolkeria does what she can for people.

Bethus Lumus- Nera Lumus hid when their store Fine Fittings was attacked.

Abercandalu- rat faced humanoid demons that delight in the destruction of beauty and artwork. Pretty nasty looking and pretty tough. One would definitely put up a fight for all of you. But it is certainly not something that is to bad, particularly if there is only one of them.

Bethus- “Any one of Tess’s little ones is certainly a friend of mine.” “Both her and my wife go way back (hair dresser)... may remember your father…. I never knew your mother, but your father I never quite knew his name but I knew his vocation. He seemed to be very into his teachings. He seemed to be a follower of Desna. One of the most kindest travelers I’ve ever seen. Coming and going. I have a gift from him in the shop that I would be more than happy to give you if you are so inclined. It’s a small sextant…. It’s nothing to important. He saved my life once and I just kind of felt like I owed it to him. It’s a lovely little gift and I set it up in the store. That is if the abercandlu hasn’t eaten it I suppose.”

Anevia wants us to find cultists: Tower of Estrod, Assyrian Manor, and Topaz Solutions. 

Nolkaria- halfling, (half a person as the ruder people say), wouldn’t say anything mean like that, jobs just come to me if you go to the universe, the universe provides I think that’s Desna, I’m sure others have their religious preferences, I’ve been helping the guards, shop on the outskirts (doesn’t think shop is there anymore), sells herbs/remedies, task rabbit for Kennabres, could be your Martha Stewart and Oziel can be Snoop Dog. I went to jail once and it was a misunderstanding. Sometimes I’ll help you out and sometimes I’ll help others out.

Go to Tirabade residence first

Oziel prays to Torag and Asmodeus

Anevia and Irabeth live in the southern part of the gate district; despite Irabeth’s success, they prefer a simple 3 bedroom house even though Anevia thought they would live somewhere larger, it’s hard to argue with someone who donates the bulk of their rewards to various charitable causes. 

When we arrive the building is standing but abandoned which is opposite of what we were seeing. Most everything in the building has been ransacked. Sounds like something is rummaging around.

Giant thing eating musical mandolin.
Fire Beatle fight.

Fire beatle- housecat size beatle with dull brown color is brightened by two glowing green spots on it’s carapace. Usually they’re nocturnal which may be why this one was trying to hide in this closet. Caged fire beatles are a very popular source of illumination for eccentric miners (minors?)

Another fire beatle fight.
orc fight- He wants us to go.

Fancy Ransour

Ged finds loot under floorboard. Password to get into Defend’s Heart is silver strong

Serenrae Shrine mention


10 Just the Tip Grey Garrison, Kennabres, Anniva, Irabeth Tirabade, Condemned, Staunton, Nolkeria, Aravashneal, Shear, Eagle Watch, Warden of Kennabres, Horgus Gwerm, Defender’s Heart, Abyssal Corruption, World Wound, Mongralmen, portal, Wardstone, Obelisk, Deskari, Herald, Queen, angel, Minago, Lillitu, demon hoard, Nerosian, Abyss, Deskari, Minago, Iomedae,Terendelev, Shear, Dretch

Come up in a storehouse (basement) of the Grey Garrison
“Greatest stronghold in Kennabres is now a direct portal for demons.”
Grey Garrison is a focal point of Kennabres; town center/government hall, it’s a fortress
Staircase up; door with blue aura (ward cast on door); various magical artifacts on every wall
Anevia says that was the museum, worried about everyone fighting (implies worried about Irabeth)
Run into demons fighting a squad; Irabeth and Condemned dwarf (Staunton)
Halfling (flowers and butterflies; hedgehog)- Nolkeria
Dretches, goat things, old man with hunched back
Aravashneal joins the fight
Shear- type of demon
Irabeth and Anevia (Nevie and Beth) are married
Anevia- “Survived the fall, rounded us up, and led us to the surface. Without them there is no doubt I’d be standing here today.”
Irabeth Tierabade. Commander of the Eagle Watch; she’s more than capable of leading this whole outfit; until the army arrives she is the temporary Warden of Kennabres
Staunton told to lead us further on
Irabeth- “City itself is gone… most defenders along with Terendelev died in the first few hours. Most civilians died or fled. Whole place overrun with cultists and demons.”.... “Most holed up in Defender’s Heart (inn).”
Irabeth notices we have Abyssal Corruption.
We told her about the Mongralmen, and the portal under the city
60% of city has been killed
Mongralmen- descendents of the first crusaders who are gathering to help us

Irabeth- “When the demons attacked the city, the main target was our Wardstone. I trust that I don’t have to explain what the Wardstone is or how important it to crusaders. But we must take it at any cost. See, it fell into the very top of the Grey Garrison. While the Wardstone itself has been severed, the tip, the large portion of it in the center is still providing some benefit; but if we fail to retake this area, who knows what terrible things will come into play.” “Afterall, these Wardstones are a gift from Iomadae herself. Created by her herald and the mighty angel and general of celestial armies. These Wardstones keep the World Wound from expanding and they stand along the boarder of territory controlled by demons creating a barrier that keeps them inside. This Kennabres Obelisk was the first one to be placed and I cannot make it the first one to fall. The demons have laid a long siege to Kennabres, but this time their lord Deskari, when he actually appeared, he ripped the Wardstone from the ground and hurled it halfway across the city to here. I thought it was destroyed, but Deskari is gone, the Wardstone is still here. It is just surrounded by a hoard of these demon creatures. I mean, after all, this is just standard practice for a crusader, yeah?” “There is nothing up there that could potentially be ours (going further up).” “Master Staunton, I’m going to ask that you continue your service. Even with your history, I think you have the best chance at making sure these heroes as it were make it to the top.” “For Iomedae and the Queen.”

Staunton to Malort “At least we’ll get to die on the same side.”

Demons and cultists blocking our approach.

Minago- “What an unexpected surprise. Staunton, my little sweetheart. Long time no see, I’ve missed you so much. Have you missed me? Oh, admit it. You’ve missed me terribly.”
Staunton- spits on her. “Minago, you again your wench.”

Minago- name of one of the deadliest creatures in the whole demon hoard. Responsible for a massacre in Kennabres 80 years ago. Led the charge for eviscerating the forces in Drezen. One of the leaders of the Lillitu demons. 

Staunton- “That wench is the one who lead me astray… she’s the reason Drezen fell.”
They taunt each other in sweet or not so sweet ways.
Shears- buffed from being around Lullitu

As soon as you step into this chamber we struggle. Air laden with power coming from the stone in front of us. “You see what looks like the tip of a giant Obelisk that has crashed through the ceiling and is admitting immense power.” 4 cultists trying to do something and Minago.
 
Minago- “Congratulations, you made it all the way here. This is it, your precious Wardstone. What are you planning to do now? I’d kill you where you stand, but wouldn’t that be nice if you could die in battle like heroes? No, I want you to die in dispair, scrabbling around like rats in the blighted ruins of your city, blind and broken. Your flesh scabbed and seeping, every moment knowing precisely what was done to you. There isn’t a soul who can resist the temptation of the Abyss. Even a stone can be turned and I’m not joking. Your precious Wardstone weakened from the injury of Deskari will succumb to my charms soon the whole barrier around the World Wound, the gift of your useless goddess will be a weapon of the Abyss. Just a little more and boom *haha* every city with one of these little eyesores stuck in the middle of it from here to Nerosian will turn into smoking craters. And all the portals to red sludge beneath our hooves. So you have a choice, specially you my pet. (“looking” at Staunton) Kiss me on my dainty hoof, pledge your loyalty to Bahphomet and when the world falls, ruins shall be yours.” “Want to know what happens to your Wardstone when I’m done with it? Here’s a demonstration. (casts a spell and we all wince in pain and we feel thousands of voices from so much pain and screaming.)”

We all come to in Defender’s Heart. We’re not sure what happened or how we arrived (we reach level 3).


9 Unfriendly Shield Maze-ing Spiderwoman: Abyssal Corruption, Mongralmen, World Wound, Condemned, Dretch, Wendawaug, Nabassu, Assimar, Quasit, Savamelack, Lann, Chief Soul, Annevia, Aravashneal, Whoa Whoa, 

Abyssal Corruption- early crusaders who went into the world wound the first time; abyssal corruption- something that if you spend time in a consecrated space or away from the World Wound then it melts away, but if you spend time in unconcecrated areas in the World Wound this begins to build up and has different effects. Some people just die from it. Maybe the Mongraelmen have found a way to adapt to it. Yes, they look demonic and constantly live shorter lives than necessary, but maybe this is exactly what is keeping them from those longer lives or looking more normal. We are starting to do the same.

Find room with cultists bodies; ritual suicide (Malort recognizes from his time in the Condemned)
Open portal directly into the Abyss and a lot of footprints going through the floor
Don’t know how long the rift has been open or how long it will stay open

Dretch fight
Dretch- the lowest of demons in the abyss and have the need to spread ruin and dismay; it is as hideous and foul as it is cruel; what it lacks in strength it uses to brutilze others; it tries to cause as much chaos as possible; like all demons: DR 5 cold iron and good; completely immune to electricity; resistance to cold, fire, and acid; immune to poison; like all demons it can summon other demons; it can only summon another dretch; once per day it can use stinking cloud.

All demons-  DR 5 cold iron and good; completely immune to electricity; resistance to cold, fire, and acid; immune to poison; like all demons it can summon other demons

New room with winged demon
Asamar praising Iomedae; demon kills the Asamar; several Mongralmen children are around him (5 or 6); claims they aren’t human or demon and that tieflings are less defective than the children; he claims he can make them stronger; Mongralmen child says they are the children of crusaders and trusting a demon would be a betrayal of their legacy; demon calls for Wendawaug; and she comes and kills him; Wendawaug wonders who values the crusader’s values more than their life; she struggles with what she is saying (her fear is guiding her actions at this point); Mongralmen fall to their knees; demon wants them to eat the Asamar’s body; winged demon binds them to his will; 
Demon says to Oziel, “There’s more to you than meets the eye. You have our power within you.”

Demon disappears and leaves us to fight Wendawaug and the Mongralmen children
Demon was a Nabassu Demon- Associated with gluttony; create thralls; batlike wings; try to consume people’s life and turn them into ghouls; 

Quasit- Lesser form of demons; least powerful but not least respected; greater than dretches; familiars for spell casting masters; some escape from their masters and gain free will and become dangerous; ½ foot tall and 8lbs; often come with demonic hoards as a way of gathering human souls to take them down; as a summon it doesn’t have all of it’s abilities; can change shape; is flying; at will it can turn invisible; has standard demon traits: DR 5 good and cold iron; immune to electricity and poison; resist acid cold; and fire; 

 Lann and Wendawaug have a fight. Wendawaug did the ritual; Lann wants to bring everyone to the surface and live out his short life; Wendawaug, claims their blood will be on our hands; “Lann will do nothing but get our people killed”; she wants Neather’s to use demonic power; Lann lets Wendawaug go…. If we let something small keep us from redeeming them, then that makes us like the demons

Lann murders Wendawaug; 

Holy Symbol- Savamelack- looks like many armed creature with knives

Chief Soul- 
Anevia- “I’ll be damned, turns out Aravashneil wasn’t as crazy as we thought. There really were demons down here. We should have listened to him and sent a patrol down here. Damn.”
Aravashneal- “I knew it! I suppose I wish I didn’t know it. From this smell around here, something gruesome has definitely happened. But Anevia, I know you would have fixed it if you could have.”
Anevia- “ Like it’s not that I tried to go after every damn shadow in this city, everyone knows about stories of demons living under the streets of Kennabres. Those tales are as old as the crusades themselves; I messed up but (she goes over to Ged) you fixed my mistake old friend, thanks.”
Lann- “This place is overrun by demons, yes, but that’s not the worst part. Wendawaug has been working with demons this whole time, luring our young and our strong Mongrals into the maze. We could have saved these, but I guess they can’t get any stupider at this point. Let’s try and make sure we don’t get any of those meaner than they work for. I guess all teenagers are monsters in their own way.”
Chief Soul- “Only the God’s can salvage their souls.” They will gather the tribes and see us in less than a month.
Whoa Whoa

Come into a stone basement. 


8 La La Lann: Order of the Palatine Eye (secret society), Hellknight, Order of the Nail, Ustalav, Hosala, Kennabres, mongral, Drezen, M (Minago), Bahapomet, Deskari, Tower of Estrod, Fine Fittings, Vorlesh (Areluvorlesh), Kennabres, Radiance, 4th Crusade, Core Menzata, Lulituminago, Yaneil, Church of Estrod, Grey Garrison, 

Found battleplans; distributed loot
Magical Statues staring into Ged’s soul
Altar at far end of room
Bloodied ribbon drawn on a door and door with gargoyle head embedded into the lock
Red, blue, yellow, green, red glyphs and clockwork door opens
Magical study with some papers and a wooden chest
Amulet of Natural Armor has the eye of (Esoteric) Order of the Palatine Eye (secret society); scholars and historians based out of Ustalav. Mission- study and monitor dangerous lore and human monsters
Hellknight signifier helmet was mission; Order of the Nail
Chick and tieflings (Bahaphomet cultists) (trapped there for a year)

Folded paper, “Hosala, you will remain for the time being in Kennabres, but know this. The city’s days are numbered. Seek a place of safety. The underground den of your mongral lackey should suffice to keep you safe from the devastation to come. I shall assume command of Drezen shortly and once Vorlesh has finished with the wardstone and Kennabres is no longer of interest to us, you are to return to my side. Excellent news regarding the salvage of Yaniel’s sword from the museum. Bring it with you for I believe this weapon could be quite useful once we corrupt it before you leave for Drezen, stop by the three safe houses. Missing Manor, Topaz Solutions, and the Tower of Estrod. The passphrase remains, ‘I have new material for the archives.’ for now. To ensure no evidence remains behind. May Lord Desaki and Lord Bahaphomet watch over you. -M

Distribute loot again
We find Radiance (+1 cold iron long sword that radiates like a torch); changes into weapon of whatever deity of the paladin who grasps it.
Relic with powers that are drained
	Transported to 4692, soon after the start of the 4th crusade. See paladin of Iomedae. A renowned demon slayer, feel the name Yaniel come to mind. She speaks to the Mendavian crusaders. Accusing them of negligence and sloth in the crusades, claiming that these thoughts are what allowed Core Menzata to invade Kennabres and damage the wardstone in the first place. However, you can see the crowd begin to shift in their dealings. Even though she is a great warrior, her accusations are cutting a little to close to the truth. In a moment of weakness, her superiors threaten to excommunicate her. Instead, you feel this immense amount of pain and sadness. She enters the world wound to fight in the 4th crusade of her own will with only her magic sword radiance in her company. Cutting back, you can see the church is more than happy to see Yaniel go. And for the two years that follow, they treat her as if she is already dead. Yet, when she returns to Kennabres 2 years later she has lead a small army of crusaders and it seems like she and her superiors have changed. For the most part, Yaniel has shed the pride of her insubordination and gained a new appreciation for difficult decisions leaders are sometimes forced to make. The church leaders also realize sometimes that the truth is exactly what you need to hear. However, it seems Yaniel was still assassinated; this time slain by the demon Lulituminago only a week into her second personal crusade. Most of her followers seemed to return to Kenabres with her sword but they could never find Yaniel’s body. The sword went dark after Yaniel’s death. It’s magical powers are somewhat lost. Most of the time, the crusaders have elected to keep this sword in the Grey Garrison or the Church of Estrod on display. However, it was stolen a few months ago. The only way to destroy the sword is a paladin must willingly slay an angel with this sword at which point this becomes a normal sword. Otherwise it is completely impervious to damage. 

Gargoyle head door leads us to a staircase up.


7 Only Negative Vibes: Neatherhome, Krella, Drya, Malorn, GED GIVES AWAY THE FISHING BOAT, Erastil, Aravashneil, Anevia Tirabade, Eagle Watch, Horgus Gwerm, cultist, shield maze, deskari, cultist, Baphomet, Rift Warden, Neosia, Queen Galfrey, Lann, crypt raider’s armor

Mongralmen fishing… Ged gives away the boat…..
Mongralmen talk about horned gods
Erastil- homes, communities
Genuine sense of community among their home and wanting to support those above them
Ged doesn’t think people on the surface wouldn’t accept these people (wouldn’t give a shit about them) because of how they act to tieflings
Ged’s dad taught him everything he knows; Ged hasn’t seen his dad in a year; his dad is a big fisherman, wants to sit and listen to one of his dad’s fishing stories, “Mr. ‘rasel”

Aravashneil gave Anevia and the eagle watch a report of the people” I suspected was funding a hostile cult in the city. Yes, it might have been wrong naming Mr. Gwerm based on my hunch, but you have to admit it looks slightly less foolish now.”
Horgus- “This tragedy might not have happened if you spent less time surveillancing honest citizens and more time tracking down the real spies and demon worshippers.” 
Anevia- “Brilliant idea, why didn’t I think of that. If only the cultists would tell us that they are cultists and then we wouldn’t have to waste our time investigating honest citizens who decide to go all cloak and dagger right under our noses.
All have a long acquaintance but dislike with each other.
Anevia hates Horgus. Anevia spies on Horgus and rummages through his stuff. 

Aravashneil is still blind. Aravashneil- “Cultists don’t tend to look like cultists, absolutely. That’s the whole problem. You see, Mr. Gwerm, this whole secret operation of buying and smuggling into the city that, what, what was it you were trying to do? Oh yes, smuggle in magical weapons. How was I suppose to know all the rigamaroll with the middle men you could just anonymously donate those to the crusade?”
Horgus- “Don’t you see? I have a reputation to uphold. One that I highly value. Horgus Gwerm is a hard nosed businessman, yes, not a good fairy from a tale, no. I care about my city you see. Yes, I wish to see it’s defenders, and yes they’re my defenders.” (he points pointedly at Oziel) “Are well fed and healthy and armed. But to make those donations openly is unthinkable. I might as well make a sign outside my door welcoming in every sponge, and leech, and parasite in the city.”
Anevia- “Look, we appreciate your help in the crusade, look, you’re an alright bloke. But carrying on secret dealings in a city that’s teeming with cultists is a huge pain in the backside for the lot of us it is to keep an eye on that sort of thing.”
Horgus- “I suppose, well. What is it that you lot are doing back there? Aren’t you supposed to be dottling about in the shield maze trying to get us home?”.... Longer we’re here the more likely the city we’re to defend is gone
Oziel mentions of all the things we’ve found (food, etc.); Sybil mentions Bahaphomet cultists
Aravashneil gets excited that he’s right, that cultists were living under the city; he feels justified, wants to train new Rift Wardens who want to do more than study portals but to go on the offensive. Will train any new wizards who uncover the secrets of our order and help defend against the demons. He also implies Sybil can learn the secrets of the Rift Wardens.
Anevia mentions we’re a stones throw from Nerosia. We can hold on until reinforcements from the Queen come. This isn’t his home turf so he’ll have to go home or fight the whole Mandevian army.
Horgus mentions his mansion. He also mentions the people would stone the Mongrals on sight. 
Lann comes with us.

WE REALIZE GED GAVE AWAY THE BOAT

Fight: Deskari cultists or Bahaphmotet cultists?
No need to make a save against light of heaven? It just happens?
Crypt raider’s armor


6 Scatman Jawn: Lann, Wendawag, torture, Hell Knight, shield maze
	Torture implements, skeleton with black helmet, Hell Knight Signifier Helmet, aurum vorex,Tess “just one more step”, angel holy warrior, Yaniel, Radiance, Tower of Estrod, Drezen, 1st Crusade, 2nd Crusade, Loriel, Neatherhome, Wendawag

Chest: rings, shield, potions, scrolls, (two rings didn’t understand what they are) 
Debate of what sword of heaven is
Oziel gets hair from mongralman
Room that smells bad and is covered in poop; aurum vorex statue
Tess “just one more step” for Sybil to keep going in room
Poop Monster Fight….. (ooze)
Treasure chest
3 mongralmen fight
Wizard Pictures
Painting- picture of angel from vision, more humanoid, still has magical wings of light, but it stands out as angelic figure or holy warrior of some type, 
Oziel things this is a figure in Kennabres/Mendev, Yaniel, recognize name from Tower of Estrod which holds many relics from in town from the early crusades
Yaniel was a legendary hero in the first crusade and was famous in Golarian, was born in Mendev, when crusades happened she couldn’t sit by (that’s what the stories say), some say she was audacious or spirited, always the first one into battle and never sacrificed other’s lives for a tactical advantage, hear here talked about among paladins because she is a point of pride, had an incredible sword that was on display in the Tower of Estrod, but it was stolen at some point in the last few decades, still has the spot with the story on it, was one of the people defending Drezen to the very end in the 2nd crusade and that’s where everyone assumes she perished (or hope she perished because something else would have been worse)
Lann and Malort bond over “moms”
Lann mentions Loriel’s sword
Go back to Neatherhome
Whoa Whoa is slowly healing
Lann worried that Wendawag is gone and suddenly worried if the Neathers should go to the surface.


5 Lizzie McDire: Shield Maze, Lann, torture, water elemental

Wizard paintings, "knights and demons made by human parts"

Finding the Pantry room

Monitor lizard fight

Lann thinking the bean will grow out of him and get to the surface

2 Mongralmen with the glowing eyes

Dire rat fight

More mongralmen

Oziel starts hearing voices

Water elemental, torture chamber/implements, something keeps calling to Oziel from the room


4 A Glaive Error: Nether, Wendawag, Wendy, Shield Maze, 5th crusade, 1st crusade, Drezen, Hosala, Lann, Bahpomet, mongral


Neathers waiting to return to the surface and they have mutations because of the demon taint

We convince Chief Sull to wait and not charge the Shield Maze

Find mysterious statues

Lann went back to find Wendawag and couldn’t find her; worried she did something rash and wants to help find her. Wendawag gets huffy when she doesn’t get her way.

Turn pathfinder 5th crusade into the real life 4th crusade

Room has dragons and their battles in the crusades

Magical torches and magic on other side of the wall

Wall- depiction of 1st crusade (children of the 1st crusade), battle depicts 1st foray into the world wound and establishing Drezen; Drezen currently controlled by demons but was established by crusaders (at least 80 years old).

Opulent chairs- religious significance? Stags? Bulls? Who knows?

Cultists- think part is demons; think part is looking for work; Hosala is name they mention; have glaves; holy symbol of Bahphomet (same as the dead crusaders)

Hosala- gives orders, she

Book- wrapped in red flame fabric, 4 scrolls, can’t read book, unknown language (between languages), reads like wizard spellbound, how to use baphomet’s sacred weapon (glaive)

Lann impressed by library, no one but Wendy has been in the maze

Wendawag- never said anything about other people in the maze

Room with table- smaller table around- portraits on wall in different color pallets (1 is askew); same ornate table and chairs but more terrifying (petrified limbs of creatures)

3 young mongrals but blood red eyes with yellow glow; Lann recognizes them, these are some of the children

Lann looks around- this is Holvan, not from our tribe but we’re both hunters. Wendy said they just disappeared, I thought they disappeared. It’s what Wendy said. This isn’t him anymore. Ged kills him.


3 Gong with the Wend: Neatherhome, Wendawag, Sull, Shield Maze, Lann, Anevia, Aravashniel, Durrah, Krell, Whoa Whoa, Terendelev, Rift Wardens, Eagle Watch, Horgus, Vorc, Dark Mantel (bat thing), Opley, bull, aurox, general, baphomet, bull headed

Neatherhome
Wendawag- Don’t show light of heaven to Sull.  She’s been to Shield Maze. Physical and traps. I had to step over their bodies to go further. Lann believes you and your sword will solve the problems but I think it will get my people killed. I want you to help me find the kids. I can get you all halfway. I’ll bring everyone to the surface. I’ve only reached halfway. If you don’t show the chief the light I’ll lead you out.
Chief Sull- ratlike, 23 years
Lann- claims Malort found the sword and somehow it is now inside him. Young ones are still alive and I know we can save the young ones.
Chief Sull- uplander with the light of heaven; to good for us, good things never happen to us. Lann trusts people because he likes to believe. If you want to show me the light, that is up to you. But if you want to wait I’ll set you up for one night.
Lann looks disappointed when we don’t show the light right away.
Sull- Peace, Peace Lann, miracles aren’t for us. We are the tribe, we wait. You are one of us you can wait as well. Wants best for Neathers.
Anevia finds Aravashniel who has an eye wrapping around him
Durrah and Krell- Explain the spore mushrooms until it turns in the mushrooms. 10 day treatment for Whoa Whoa. Costs 20 gold pieces. Mr. Whoa Whoa Whoa

Shopping and Bartering in Neatherhome…. (Opley 6)
Sarah personally not understanding a word of what the Neatherhome shopkeeper saying….

“Terendelev statue”

Aravashniel and Anevia talking about Aravashniel being blind and Anevia having a bum leg. He’s seen Ged around and can bullseyes a mile away.
Horgus

Vroc attacked Aravashniel (took javelin to the eye) and gave him Whoa Whoa cloth
Aravashniel is a Rift Warden and defender of Kennabres, more than happy to teach Sybil if we all get out.
Anevia spoke with the chief
Rift Warden focus on great beyond, pulling things from time and space protecting the boundaries between planes and punishing evil doers. Mastered conjuration, protection, and arcane knowledge most can only dream of. Can open portals. Rift Wardens can only pull things onto our planes, not teleport on our own. 

Sybil scribing into spell book.

Sleep knowing they’re watching your back like they have for the last 100 years.

Lann and Wendawag
Lann says no one has come back from the maze except Wendawag; People went into maze before Wendy was born and they didn’t come back. Lann is 13
Dark Mantel
Demon Taint
Chief Sull- We have waited here 80 years and we can wait a few more gongs. (chastizing Lann); “It’s true, the angel did not forsake us. He came back from the dead. To save our children.”
We piss Wendawag off.
Chief Sull- We will wait, but they will come. Hopefully you clear the maze and you’ll come back. We have 3 of your own so you’ll be back, right?
Lann is willing to take us to the maze. Wendawag is stubborn.
Should we worry about Wendy?
Lann- I don’t think so, I don’t think she would hurt any of you guys trying to help us. She’d never attack a fellow Neather. She’s 10 years old. (Age of consent is 3.) Something no one has done in a long time; you’ve given us Mongrals hope. It’s like we’re starting to believe we’re worth something again. Now that we have the power of angels are on our side. It won’t change anything of course, but you’ll help us save our young ones hopefully.

Find a nonmagical rowboat on the shore

We go into the iron door of the maze. Cavern to building. 2 statues. 1 bull creature; 1 multi armed demon holding sickles. Motifs are bulls or aurox and flickering lit candles. Symbols of Aurox; can’t tell what they are except for general belonging to baphomet’s army

Massive statue of bull headed god and a lot of figures chanting.


2 Light of Heaven: Annevia Tierabade, Eagle Watch, Horgus Gwerm, The Condemned, Whoa Whoa, Wakuva, Torag, Rovagug, Father of Creation’s Heart, Lann,  Wendawog, Shield Maze, Loriel, Deskari, mongrels, neathers, Wendy, Light of Heaven, Terendelev, Chief Sul, angel, Neatherhome, Whoa Whoa,  mushrooms

“Ged was supposed to protect the city from this sort of thing.”
Fight a fly (maggots matured into this)
Viper

Tall building, carving of hammer, “The Father of Creation’s Heart” ruins, Crusader god, Torag made Rovagug’s prison, 

Undead dwarf-  wakuva, risen corpse of heretical cleric who blasphemed against or renounced deity before death. Instead of granting them death, the deity makes them live as slightly intelligent zombie. All they know is their deity has completely forsaken them.

Fight against wakuva and we got the Torag ring

Magical sword in the stone

Magical sword
	Searing blood going down chest; feels like wound just burst open. But no pain or weakness; 
	Thoughts belong to another (cave chamber): “treachery, they betrayed me, trapped me, and stabbed me in the back. My most trusted allies, my treasured friends. The people I swore to protect;  the people who I’m descended from heaven. The people who came to this turbulent mortal world.” (and there they are ahead of you in this cave. What are they waiting for, what are they afraid of? DO they believe that you’re about to die from their tratiorous blows? Next to you a quiet moan. A girl with a golden braid lies on the rocks clutching her slashed side. She refused to join in the traitors and paid dearly for it. Maybe you could have tried to run. But you won’t. No. not when you have the strength to do something. (Maybe you could control the thoughts). Spark of healing magic illuminates you. Wounded girl opens her eyes and whispers, “Lariel (Loriel?), you said that everything is going to change soon. That all the other warriors of heaven would be leading us on a grand mission to stop the demons forever. Is that true?” 
	Images: priestess in colorful robes observing stars; female paladin praying, clutching at her glowing sword; majestic winged angel “only if you are willing and only if you are ready; there is no going back. 
	Girl next to you whispers, “Don’t waste your strength healing me. Your mission is more important. Just take care. It’s near.”
	Something in cave stirs into motion. (vague shadow). (Chirping/wrestling). Traitors fall to knees. In shadowy reverence.
	Girl thrashes in death throws.
	(Loriel sent vision into head.)
	Force is terrifying.
	Is it a vision or a memory?
	Resembles Deskari himself. (Demon Lord.)
	Hand wraps around the throat of the angel they’re calling Loriel. Deskari makes fun of the angel and asks where the goddess is. “Oh angel, where is her Herald? Why are you dying here, alone? So far from the light of your heaven?” Strange calm envelopes Loriel who will never bow down. Flaming sword in hand. Goes to life. Blade goes through flesh and angel is freed from grip. Undiminished pride. Sword plunged into the rock.
	“You will kill me monster, this I know. But one day know. Someday, someone will come here and raise up my sword. They will raise it.”
	Sword disappears into hand. 

Torag likes us cleaning up his temple

Lann and Wendawog (Wendy) talking about the Shield Maze

Mongrals/Neathers- forefather’s suffered to become the consequences of demonice corruption all to protect Mendev and Golarian (all so we could become monsters to frighten children), descendants of the first crusaders
Chief- thinks they’re reserve military force
Mongrals will be called up for one big last stand
Wendawag- When the walls of the maze fall, that will be the signal to our people that we should go fight the demons in our final confrontation. Otherwise, it protects us from taking rash actions.

Lann/Wendy Looking for holy sword

Terendelev

Sword appeared before him

Lann mentions what the corruption did to them

Chief Sul

If we have the power of angels with us, he’ll let us go.

Neatherhome

Find statues of the first crusaders

Creatures attack us (strange bats) fight
Crazy Dwarf (Whoa Whoa) fight- 
Mushrooms


1 Plagued by Darkness: Kennebras, Wardstone, Blight, Worldwound, Terendelev, Eagle Watch, The Condemned, Abyss, Staunton Vahn, Prellit Hulrun the Inquisitor, Aravashniel, Rift Wardens, Anevia (Anevia), Deskari, Lord of Locusts, Horgus Gwerm, Templars of the Ivory Labyrinth, Baphomet

City of Kennebras, Arodus 9th of 4713. The Day of the City
Defensive Bastion against the World Wound; stood for 80 years despite 100s of demonic attempts to overtake it. Success is tied to a few things:
1) 500 foot obelisk known as the wardstone. One of the network of Obelisks that prevent the blight of the worldwound from expanding.
2) Terendelev powerful ancient dragon that has repulsed armies for over a century of conflict.
3) Hardened people themselves. Organize here to fight.
	4) Crusader gods and people are vigilant
Years since 4th crusades.
Numbers of willing crusaders are dwindling.

Eagle Watch- City guard of Kennebras
The Condemned- Emblem, suicide squad, squad of criminals to pay for their crimes being a frontline against the Abyss

Staunton- spit on by affluent people as he goes by
Prellit Hulrun the Inquisitor- Older gentleman, stern voice, seen fair share of war, massive scar across face, silver hair and armor, golden symbol of Iomedae on paldron, implies tieflings are spies

Staunton- not make eye contact

Hulrun- wanted to burn Malort at the stake

No weapons during festival

Hulrun heals Ged

Terendelev- Mighty Protector of the City

Aravashniel- Head of Secret order of Rift Wardens, only wants to see defense of the city

Terendelev- Silver hair woman, ageless, centuries old sadness, kind, dragon, knows Ged’s old man

Ged- wound is different and won’t heal normally, only with time

Terendelev- I hope tomorrow (Ged) comes to me in the cathedral to say that you are expedited by Terendelev, the Protector of Kennabres. I will find a way to help you

Ged- says he’ll be there tomorrow

Terendelev- Icy breath

Eagle Watch- Anevia? Boyish appearance

Grasshopper bites Malort Wardstone shatters

Swarm Locusts descend on the festival

Balors

Winged demons pick up and drop people

“Behold crusader gods, behold Iomedae. You pour and poster, your city will fall to me. Your followers will feed on my hunger.”
Fiendish minotaur

Terendelev calls down all the things (fire, acid, cold), “Deskari, Lord of Locusts, leave my city.” Ancient silver dragon (tail and wing attacks, roar and cower)

Deskari- huge, Wings made of locusts,bony sythe; crushes Terendelev with 1 sythe blow

Terendelev lands with a shockwave

Halfling with all the things on him

Crossbow “It could pierce the hide of a demonlord even” (tossed to Ged)

Ged hits Deskari with bolt and he rips it out of his chest.
“A mortal that snaps his jaws at the Lord of Locusts?”

Raises sythe and hits against the ground causing and earthquake and fissure to rip through festival ground
“Behold Iomode, behold the death I sow.”

Heroes go underground.

Anevia Tierabade- Messy brown haired woman, stuck under boulder, Eagle Watch, watching for spies (gave her the crossbow from the halfling)

City used to be protected from powerful forces

Terendelev was no match for a deity

Residual magic in caverns (fell 200 feet down onto the rocks) many others were broken; there is NO WAY we survived that fall; hint of transmutation magic on each one of us

Horgus Gwerm- Old man, fine apparel, high society, rapier, racist…., “Oziel, you definitely would know him.” Gwerm Trading Company, looks a lot at Oziel (doesn’t like being called Gus)

Annevia doesn’t like Gwerm

Spiders tainted by the abyss

Oziel says he doesn’t know if he can trust us. Ged doesn’t know who he can trust us. Gwerm is untrustworthy.

Normal insects- Little creepy thing comes out with gnashing teeth

Finding Terendelev’s scales- weighing you down with protecting the city

Spore Fungus- Attaches to Someone
Spore Coffer- Like a basalisk
Templars of the Ivory Labyrinth- worshippers of Baphomet, Glaive, 
